Source: http://www.sjsu.edu/afrotc/index.php
Title: Aerospace Studies
Type: HTML

Keep Up With Us
Detachment 045 NorCal Rankings
Cumulative GPA: Top 25%
Physical Fitness Scores: Top 25%
Overall NorCal Det
New Possibilities are waiting!
Cadets at Detachment 045 have a more unique college experience than most other college students. Once a week, cadets attend ROTC classes taught by commissioned Air Force officers (Cadre members). In these classes, cadets are taught about Air Force history, customs and courtesies,
and leadership skills.
Join Now!
Develop your Leadership Potential
Outside the classroom, you’ll build leadership skills through cadet organizations
and professional development while exploring Air Force career fields. Every week,
cadets practice leadership, learn skills like marching and uniform wear, and build
teamwork in a hands-on environment.
Push Yourself to New Limits
Physical Training (PT) is held Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:00–7:00 AM. Sessions focus on cardio and strength
to prepare for the Physical Fitness Assessment (PFA), which cadets must pass to compete
for Field Training and AFROTC scholarships.
Find Camaraderie
Many other opportunities exist for cadets to become involved in the detachment including
Arnold Air Society, Precision Drill Unit, Special Warfare Club.
Compete for Scholarship Opportunities
ROTC also offers a number of scholarships to qualified ROTC cadets. Twice a year, cadets may apply for a variety of scholarships
that can pay up to full college tuition. In order to compete for a scholarship or
to contract with the U.S Air Force, you must be a citizen. If you have any questions
you can call at:
(408) 924-2960 or email afrotc@sjsu.edu.
Learn More About AFROTC
About AFROTC
Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) is a 4 year program in which students
learn how to become an Air Force Officer. During these 4 years, cadets work together
to not only learn valuable leadership skills, but also how to work in a team, think
critically, and speak in front of others.
Classes
In the AFROTC program, cadets progress from level to another. Each time a cadet increases
in level they acquire a different set of training and become more knowledgeable in
the tasks they need to become an Air Force Officer.
Activities
Besides the required classes, LLAB, and PT, many other opportunities exist for cadets
to become involved in other activities. Cadets may be involved in many programs from
sports to clubs and internships.
Scholarships
If you are still in high school, consider applying to the High School Scholarship
Program (HSSP).
Once a cadet in the AFROTC program, you may be eligible to compete in the In-College
Scholarship Program (ICSP).
Join Us
Learn how you can join the program and what the requirements are.