Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni
Title: Alumni Association
Type: HTML

Telling Stories of Transformation at SJSU
Welcome Spartan Alumni!
You are part of a vibrant and active community of over 350,000 alumni driving change in Silicon Valley and the world at large. Stay connected with your fellow alumni through networking and volunteer opportunities, programs, campus events and more.
Featured News
Introducing the Fall 2025 Edition of the SJSU Magazine
Blueprints can be the pathway to great change. After 31 years of presenting our stories under Washington Square Magazine, named for the parcel of land in which the original Normal School was built in 1857, we are sharing an updated vision designed to further our connection with our readers, both present and future. The fall issue shares how revisiting our blueprints of the past allows us to pave an innovative path forward.
San José State University Earns Prestigious Rankings from the Wall Street Journal
We’re proud to share that San José State University continues to shine on the national stage. In the Wall Street Journal and College Pulse’s 2026 Best Colleges in the U.S. rankings, released September 30, SJSU was named the #5 best public university in the nation and #17 overall.
49ers employee and SJSU alum creates team-inspired artwork
January 31, 2024
SJSU alum Emilio Cortez '14 Art, is senior coordinator of the 49er's EDU program where he teaches kids about STEAM concepts and how they relate to football. On top of this he is also a talented artist, creating beautiful custom footballs for Latino Youth award recipients. As part of the first Latinx employee resource group, Emilio and the 49er's host pregame ceremonies to recognize Latino youth who are doing good in their community. An incredible artist and community leader, we are honored to include Emilio in the Spartan family!
Upcoming Events
Want to Support the Alumni Association?
The Alumni Association supports current students through scholarships, career planning resources and fundraising. Our alumni are an integral part of our mission; learn more about how you can support future Spartans!