Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/careers/campus-life/index.php
Title: Campus Life
Type: HTML

Campus Life
San José State University is Silicon Valley’s public university and has been a vital part of the Downtown San Jose community for more than 100 years. We are the number one supplier of talent to Silicon Valley and our faculty, staff, students, and alumni make an impact throughout California and beyond.
See What SJSU Has to Offer
SJSU is unique in its storied history of student civil rights activism, service to first-generation student populations, racial and ethnic diversity, and location in the vibrant cultural communities and robust economy of the Silicon Valley of California.
Silicon Valley is one of the most diverse and exciting areas in the country. From San Jose to Redwood City, the Valley serves as a global center for high tech and innovation.
SJSU is a proud member of the Mountain West Conference and fields more than 20 Division I men’s and women’s teams comprised of more than 450 student-athletes. All home games are FREE to all SJSU employees.
We are committed to providing a safe and secure learning environment through professional, progressive and superior police, emergency, transportation and educational services in alliance with the campus community.
There are many ways to get to SJSU that don’t involve driving. Transportation Solutions can help you find the best way to get to campus and provides discounts for several public transportation solutions around the Bay Area.
SJSU’s campus dining options are diverse and delicious. Find everything from Starbucks to salads to sushi!
SJSU has a vibrant campus community and hosts a variety of events throughout the year, from concerts to lectures to film and theatre.
San José State’s Martin Luther King, Jr. Library is an architecturally unique building, filled with art and interesting design features. It is also one of the only combined city/state libraries in the nation.
SJSU partners with numerous organizations throughout Silicon Valley such as NASA Ames Research Center and Moss Landing Marine Laboratories to enhance the education for our students and provide exciting opportunities for faculty and staff.
San José State continues to look toward the future with Transformation 2030, our 10+ year strategic plan. President Mary Papazian’s vision comes to life through goals and outcomes identified in this plan.