Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/careers/eligibility/index.php
Title: Eligibility to Work
Type: HTML

Eligibility to Work
In accordance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, proof of employment eligibility and identification are required at the time of hire. You must be prepared to present appropriate documentation to University Personnel on or before your first day of employment.
If you are given an offer with SJSU, you will be required to complete a hiring packet before you are able to start your employment.
In addition, you should be prepared to provide emergency contact information; account and routing numbers for the Direct Deposit Program should you choose to enroll, as well as vehicle information for a University parking permit as needed.
I-9 Compliance
Please be aware that under federal regulations, employees are not permitted to work if they have not provided acceptable work authorization documents and completed an I-9 within three business days following the first day of employment. I-9 requirements may be completed prior to your employment once an offer has been given.
The Form I-9 (PDF) is used to verify eligibility to work [pdf]. SJSU utilizes the program Tracker I-9 to assist with completing the Form I-9. Employees should expect an email from Tracker I-9 for instructions regarding this process. The email will come from i9complete@trackercorp.com.
Section 1 of the Form I-9 must be completed by the employee no later than the first day of employment with SJSU.
Section 2 of the form must be completed by a trained SJSU employee or authorized agent no later than three (3) business days after the employee begins work at SJSU.
These deadlines are strict and non-negotiable. Contact University Personnel if you need further assistance with the I-9.
Tenure-Track Faculty Employment Based Visas
University Personnel may assist with the H-1B and Permanent Resident Status – EB-2 (Green Card) application process for candidates who have accepted full-time, tenure-track faculty positions. San José State University may, in limited circumstances and based on business need and available funding, consider sponsorship of H-1B employment visas for candidates offered a tenure line position.
- SJSU does not sponsor non-tenure track (temporary/lecturer) faculty for the H1-B Visa or EB-2 Permanent Residency.
- University Personnel does not provide legal advice.
- No person can be guaranteed approval of immigration status or change in status.
- Contact University Personnel at 408-924-6670 for assistance with the H-1B or EB-2 process.
Note:
- San José State University is not a sponsoring agent for temporary Lecturers, staff or student positions and may only hire individuals who are able to provide documentation showing they are legally able to work in the United States.
- San José State University does not participate in E-Verify, therefore the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Optional Practical Training (OPT) Extension does not provide work authorization for employment at SJSU.