Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/diversity/campus/council/2023-action-plan-framework.php
Title: IEC: Action Plan Framework
Type: HTML

IEC: Action Plan Framework
The Institutional Excellence Council (IEC) Action Plan Framework provides a roadmap for the campus that is specific to Institutional Excellence. The IEC is guided by specific goals from the campus strategic plan Transformation 2030 [pdf], a document which was produced through an extensive process of numerous town hall working sessions establishing aspirational goals that reflect the values and priorities of San José State University. The IEC Action Plan Framework provides a mission, vision, guiding principles and specific detailed goals so that specific units can produce their own IEC Action Plan. Action planning is open and available to all who are interested to participate, regardless of race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin.
These plans will collectively move the campus forward to achieve the Transformation 2030 goals specific to institutional excellence. This plan along with the tool kits developed by the IEC empowers members of our campus community by providing common priorities, assessment practices, and resources for institutional excellence work. This plan also empowers by providing a framework for accountability for our campus.
The Transformation 2030 goals listed below have been identified as specific to (but not limited to) institutional excellence priorities:
- Engage and Educate
- Hone next century skill sets in leadership, communication, empathy and other interdisciplinary competencies that employers seek when recruiting the future workforce—and that are needed to ensure community and civic health.
- Engage to enhance our campus (not just employers) Check pt. 4
- Excel and Lead
- Excel in the engagement of people from underrepresented populations as thought leaders
in scholarly activity.
- Excel in the engagement of people from underrepresented populations as thought leaders
in scholarly activity.
- Grow and Thrive - Be an inclusive, welcoming and well balanced community and institution
that ensures long-term financial sustainability and effectiveness and also attracts,
retains and sustains faculty and staff members and students.
- Foster an inclusive environment and infrastructure where diverse populations can flourish
- Foster an inclusive environment and infrastructure where diverse populations can flourish
- Connect and Contribute
Lead as an inspiring public campus that enriches San José’s economic, cultural, natural and intellectual vibrancy - Rebuild and Renew
- Launch and complete a comprehensive fundraising campaign generating resources that support institutional priorities, such as campus development, while also stewarding future philanthropic opportunities
- Create an information technology (IT) governance structure that cultivates efficiencies, addresses accessible workflow and defines processes.
Vision
SJSU aspires to be a place that produces curricular and co-curricular experiences in a holistic learning environment which contributes to transformation (individual and collective). It endeavors to connect and work with our diverse community of staff, faculty, students and alumni. We are reflective of the idea of cultural humility and lifelong learning through mutually constituted knowledge and understanding centering on the student experience, and experiences which reverberate across time and generations of students. We strive to create inclusive and empowering spaces.
Mission
Our mission is to enrich the lives of students, staff, faculty, alumni, and community stakeholders. It prioritizes avenues for mutual learning and exchange of knowledge. It promotes skill building opportunities to apply in the service of our diverse democratic society, and to expand the base of knowledge through research, scholarship and service. SJSU aspires to be a place for holistic learning where all members of our community are respected and contribute to transformational educational experiences for students, staff, faculty, alumni, and community stakeholders. We leverage the knowledge of our diverse community to create equitable structures, policies, and processes that further institutional excellence.
Values
Belonging
Belonging is how we make people feel. We affirm our values when we cultivate connections and promote a sense of belonging. While someone may be included, they also need to feel valued, wanted and accepted. It is a feeling of connection and community where no one feels singled out in a hostile manner.
Diversity
Diversity is our reality. We value the presence of different people, identity, culture, ideas and abilities. We know that diversity makes us think with more complexity, consider the perspectives and experiences of others, and propels us to action in our communities to make them better.
Equity
Equity is our goal. We wish to create an environment that allows our students, staff, faculty and community to be able to achieve success at SJSU. We value an environment where everyone can reach their goals without the individual, cultural, institutional and structural barriers related to social inequality.
Inclusion
Inclusion is our practice. We value the process, and the actions we take to carve out space and include all voices at the table. We strive to use language that does not replicate trauma. We value the creation of policy that does not put up barriers to success. We value instruction that allows everyone to be engaged. We value standing up against injustice in all circumstances.
Integrity
Integrity is our moral code. We strive to act in a way that is appreciative, respectful, honest and equal. Appreciation of our diversity is unquestioned by actions that show how much we appreciate the diversity that we have. We value ethical behavior and decisions that uphold rules that are in place to protect our community.
Respect
Respect is our regard for humanity. It is appreciating and being committed to learning and understanding the contributions of all people. At its core, respect is treating all of our SJSU community with kindness and integrity, free from intimidation, coercion, or bullying. We understand that respect means different things to different people and we approach learning the differences with humility.
Compassion
Compassion is how we act in response to the suffering of others. Knowing that each and every SJSU community member deserves to be treated and served from a place beyond empathy and caring.
Empowerment
Inspire the campus community to take action through direct efforts of social, educational, economic, political and psychological spaces. Give the campus community confidence and support to take action and voice perspectives to create change.
Document Revised 5 April 2023
A google document version of this document can be found here