Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/diversity/systemic-racism/messages-from-president/index.php
Title: Messages on Systemic Racism From President Papazian
Type: HTML

Messages on Systemic Racism From President Papazian
A number of presidential announcements and updates related to the university’s efforts to address systemic racism on campus have been issued. Visit the links below to view those messages on the President’s blog site.
2021
Reflections on the past year’s fight against systemic racism
June 21, 2021
I write today to reflect on the progress our campus has made this past year to combat systemic racism at SJSU and to look ahead to the work that remains. Just over a year ago, I issued the first in a series of campus messages on these critical issues. Soon thereafter, we launched an ongoing effort to develop concrete, meaningful actions—both short-term as well as long-term—to address current and legacy racial inequities.
Latest updates on our efforts to address systemic racism at SJSU
April 5, 2021
Many of us are reeling and distraught, and others are also on edge as the trial involving the killing of George Floyd continues to unfold. In this context, we are committed to developing tangible, actionable plans on issues surrounding systemic racism. Today, I write to offer an update on the efforts and actions we have taken at SJSU to address anti-Black systemic racism on our campus.
Message to the SJSU community regarding anti-Asian American racism
March 22, 2021
The recent killings near Atlanta have deeply affected members of our Spartan community, particularly women of Asian descent. Members of our Asian and Asian Pacific Islander and Desi/American (APID/A) community are fearful for themselves, families, and friends.
Announcing the inaugural Campus Committee on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (CCDEI)
March 5, 2021
This committee will identify equity gaps and make recommendations to address systemic historical inequities, prioritizing equity for historically marginalized groups and issues related to improving campus climate through campus engagement, review of relevant data, reports and research.
2020
Updates on Efforts To Address Systemic Racism on Campus
December 16, 2020
This end-of-year message summarizes SJSU’s current progress on creating and executing specific strategies for combatting the specifics of discrimination and exclusion at the university.
Announcing the Task Force on Community Safety and Policing
September 15, 2020
Consistent with the university’s ongoing focus on addressing systemic racism, this message announces the appointment of the Task Force on Community Safety and Policing. The message also describes the charge of the new Task Force and lists its members and co-chairs.
Latest Update on SJSU’s Actions
July 15, 2020
Last month, I shared immediate and longer-term action items for SJSU to address systemic racism. Several actions were identified, including steps we would take immediately as well as a number of longer-term efforts. This message describes actions we have undertaken these past 30 days and thoughts on the future.
Meetings, Listening Tours and other updates
June 26, 2020
We are creating spaces and mechanisms whereby our campus community members can process the often complex issues of racism, listen to one another and seek understanding of the pain that others may be experiencing. Here, learn about the activities that took place this past week.
Juneteenth Commemoration and SJSU’s Actions on Systemic Racism
June 19, 2020
Juneteenth is a day that, for more than 150 years, has commemorated the end of slavery in this country, a day when African American families and communities celebrate culture, strength, and perseverance. This message encourages SJSU managers and supervisors to accommodate employees who wish to honor Juneteenth in any number of ways.
Examining Our Actions and Opportunities for Change
June 11, 2020
The global protests following the unconscionable killing of George Floyd by Minneapolis police officers--just one of many recent incidents involving systemic racism in our society--raised tremendous awareness. In addition to that awareness, people are now demanding real, tangible action, including action by our universities.
Call for Community in Light of Recent Racist Attacks Against African-Americans
May 29, 2020
With news reports centering on the violent killing of George Floyd by a police officer on Memorial Day and the dangerous racial profiling of Christian Cooper, the last several days have been particularly painful for many members of the SJSU community. The incidents tap into the lived experiences of many Black and African Americans everywhere.