Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/diversity/systemic-racism/resources/index.php
Title: Resources
Type: HTML

Resources
Below, you will find a variety of resources, including videos, webinars and presentations. If there are more resources we have missed, please contact us!
SJSU Organizational Resources
The following programs and resources are available to all who would like to participate regardless of race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin.
SJSU’s Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
The university’s Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion offers valuable expertise in equity and diversity training, and its staff provides numerous resources, training and insights into systemic racism and other issues.
SJSU Black Leadership & Opportunity Center
The BLOC provides culturally enriching support for students of Black and African/American heritage. Through programming, both academic and social, professional development and other cultural engagement, the BLOC provides space for students to connect with each other, Black faculty and staff and, ultimately, the university. It is at the core of Black student life, providing not only resources, but a sense of family and belonging.
SJSU Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center
Informed and inspired by the many cultural strengths of Latinx communities, the Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center (also known as “Centro”) offers innovative programming and support services that are intentionally designed to enhance Latinx student success. Centro provides spaces that affirm students’ intersecting identities, validates their academic capabilities, develops their leadership skills, and fosters healthy relationships, while promoting civic and community engagement.
SJSU MOSAIC Cross Cultural Center
This center works to provide a safe and welcoming environment that honors and celebrates diversity. Its staff offers support, advocacy for historically underrepresented groups, leadership opportunities, and intentional programming that focus on critical thought, social justice, and cultural empowerment for the SJSU community.
UndocuSpartan Student Resource Center
The UndocuSpartan Student Resource Center uses a cross-cultural and social justice lense to provide holistic support and resources to undocumented students and the campus community.
Pride Center
The mission of the PRIDE Center is to support the LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex, Queer, Questioning, Asexual, Nonbinary, etc.) students of San José State University. Through dynamic programming and educational outreach the PRIDE Center seeks to improve the campus climate for LGBTQ+ students and advocate for the respect and safety of all members of the campus community. In collaboration with other campus programs the center works to meet the needs of students to promote the successful completion of their educational goals.
Gender Equity Center
The mission of the Gender Equity Center (GenEC) is to advocate for social justice, respect, and safety for all members of the San José State University community, by educating on issues experienced by people because of their gender, gender identity, and/or their perceived gender/gender identity, through an intersectional lens.
César E. Chávez Community Action Center
The César E. Chávez Community Action Center (CCCAC) connects SJSU students with civic engagement opportunities that deepen educational experience while promoting a lifelong commitment to activism and social justice, which are at the heart of the César Chávez legacy.
SJSU Teaching Resources
Center for Faculty Excellence and Teaching Innovation
SJSU's Center for Faculty Development supports lecturer, tenure-track, and graduate teaching assistant/associate faculty in all aspects of their assignment, including research, scholarship and creative activity; teaching; and leadership. The CFD offers a variety of workshops including topics like “Anti-Racist Pedagogy”
Creating Inclusive Classrooms
This site offers a number of resources offering actions to take to make our classrooms as healthy and as safe an environment possible for all student learners. The resources also include a number of suggestions for engaging with current topics.
Books, Articles & Informational Resources
There are many powerful ways to explore difficult problems from a variety of perspectives, including insightful authors who write with eloquence, passion, and direct knowledge about systemic racism.