Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/engineering/about-us/news/news-2023.php
Title: 2023 College of Engineering News
Type: HTML

2023 College of Engineering News
September 18, 2023
Nationally, the Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering remains a powerhouse, ranking #6 among public universities — and #12 overall (up three spots from 2023 rankings) — on the Best Undergraduate Engineering Program – Non-Doctorate list.
10 Best Colleges For Robotics Engineering in California
September 2, 2023
In recent years, the field of robotics engineering has witnessed significant advancements, making it one of the most promising and sought-after career paths. California, known for its innovation and technological developments, is home to several prestigious colleges that offer exceptional programs in robotics engineering.
By the numbers: College degree earning potential
June 21, 2023
NBC Bay Area - Who needs an expensive college degree? If you’re getting a tech job in the Bay Area, it’s all about proximity. New numbers show that San Jose State grads make just as much money, if not more.
Climate change could be creating more turbulence on flights, research shows
June 6, 2023
ABC7 News - Professor Fred Barez, Chair of the Aviation and Technology department joined the conversation with the abc7News on Tuesday, June 6 to add his insights to the studies. He demonstrated the research conducted in the Aviation lab when changes in atmospheric temperature create wind shear. As the Earth warms up, it radiates hot air and as the hot air moves up into the atmosphere it triggers what is known as clear air turbulence.
Hail a Ride on Overhead Solar Transit
April 3, 2023
SolarToday Magazine - We are designing a solar powered, grade-separated, automated transportation network system we call the Spartan Superway
SJSU aims to increase number of Black engineers to help create diverse, worldwide solutions
February 16, 2023
ABC7 News - San Jose State University aims to increase the number of Black engineers to help create diverse, worldwide solutions.
SJSU professor leads effort to support Black engineering students
February 19, 2023
CBS Bay Area - A San Jose State University professor is leading an effort to find mentors for Black science/engineering students. Devin Fehely reports.
SJSU Environmental Engineering Professor discusses likely storm impacts
Jan. 4, 2023
CBS Bay Area - Ryan Yamamoto interviews SJSU Prof. Laura Sullivan-Green about possible mudslides from arriving storm (1-4-2023)