Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/engineering/about-us/news/news-2024.php
Title: 2024 College of Engineering News
Type: HTML

2024 College of Engineering News
Embrace Change, PCB Hackathon, Semester Presentations, Science Extravaganza, and more!
December 12, 2024
Student Profile – Dhruv Varshney. PCB Hackathon recap. Mechanical Engineering Senior
Projects Presentations. CMPE@Connect 2024
Networking to Internship, Signup Projects for Day of Giving, Celebrating the Holidays, and more!
December 5, 2024
Student Profile – Khin San. Day of Giving. December Holidays. World’s Fastest Supercomputer.
Internship on Repeat, Mixing Football Professors Clubs, Comanche Nation at NASA, and more!
Novemebr 21, 2024
Student Profile – Umama Oishi. Engineering Professors and Teams Honored at Football Game. Native American, Abigail Reigner.
Brain & Brawn Dynamo, Scholarships 2024, Accelerating Energy Research, and More!
November 14, 2024
Student Profile – Keely Brown. Scholar and Donor Celebration 2024. Native American,
Aaron Yazzie.
Student Takes On C++, Native American Heritage Month, SEMI Center Coming To Sunnyvale, and more!
November 7, 2024
Student Profile – Shivam Hasurkar. National Native American Heritage Month. National Semiconductor Technology Center coming to Bay Area.
Balancing Engineering and Athletics, Quantum Computing, Halloween Facts, and More!
October 31, 2024
Student Profile – Juliette Noyer. Halloween history, the holiday’s origin is traced back to the Celtic festival of Samhain over 2,000 years ago. Data processing has achieved a major leap with the development of the world’s smallest quantum computer.
10 Years of Engineering Diversity, Moving Beyond 5G, October 24th throughout the year, and more!
October 24, 2024
Student Profile – Kevin Hong. 10th Annual Conference on Engineering Diversity. Historical
Events on October 24. The Future of Connectivity: Understanding 6G and Its Potential
Impact on Technology and Applications.
Finding Inspiration at Home, LitePoint Lab Dedication, DNA Privacy, and More!
October 10, 2024
Student Profile – Antonio Hueso-Fernandez. LightPoint lab dedication and ribbon cutting.
Customers raise concerns of 23andMe’s handling of genetic information featuring Prof.
Ahmed Banafa.
October 3, 2024
Student Profile – Komal Venugopal Vattumilli. Aqueous Battery Consortium for Clean
Energy Storage. Department of Aviation & Alaska Partnership. Hispanic Heritage Month-
SOLES @SJSU. And more...
September 26, 2024
Student Profile – Kelly Nguyen. Aviation Activities for September. California becomes
latest state to restrict student smartphone use at school featuring Prof. Ahmed Banafa.
September 19, 2024
Student Soars at PepsiCo Internship This Past Summer. Reaching the Hispanic Community
at Noche de Ciencias – Day of Science. A look at global impact of Bay Area computer
chip industry featuring Prof. Ahmed Banafa.
September 12, 2024
Meet Tyler Yuen, a junior at San José State University (SJSU) studying aerospace engineering
who has a passion for pushing the boundaries of flight. Berkeley non-profit works
to counter AI election disinformation featuring Prof. Ahmed Banafa.
Interview with SWE, SJSU ranks no. 4 with WSJ, Couchbase moves to San Jose, and more!
September 5, 2024
In a recent conversation, three members of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) explained why they joined the club and what they continue to get out of their membership. AI companies see San Jose as a place for growth featuring Prof. Ahmed Banafa.
Aviation and Technology Banquet, Skimming, Fire Alarm Safety and Procedure
August 29, 2024
Over 100 attendees gathered at the annual Aviation and Technology Department banquet to honor scholarship recipients and recognize distinguished alumni. Skimming, a growing epidemic in the United States, is fraud that takes consumers’ credit and debit card information.
Spartan Racing Achievements and Waymo Expansion beyond San Francisco
August 22, 2024
Spartan Racing Takes 1 Year Worth of Work to Amazing Results in Michigan 2024. Professor
Ahmed Banafa’s weekly tech report.
Student Pursues Passion for Change at SJSU College of Engineering
August 21, 2024
[Smith] was recently accepted into SJSU’s Human Factors Ergonomics User Experience Program within the College of Engineering.
How to Address Signal and Power Integrity Issues in Modern Smartphone Design
August 1, 2024
At the forefront of this ‘doing more with less’ philosophy is award-winning electrical engineer Kush Desai, who is helping pioneer the rear camera tech...
Cybercamp at SJSU, Cricket & Computer Science, Disability Awareness, Global Tech Outage, and More!
July 25, 2024
SJSU Hosts Cybersecurity Camp for Local High School Students. SJSU Computer Engineering
student cricket player. And more...
July 11, 2024
Black Engineer Week 2024 Creates Summer Excitement for Engineering Students. Disability
Awareness Month. July 11 Fun Fact History Events. And more...
June 6, 2024
Project Firewatch, initiated by Huston Scharnagl and Sofia Silva as a senior design project, involves developing a drone equipped with wildfire trajectory software to track and predict wildfire movements. Alan Turing was born in London, England on June 23, 1912. Demonstrating remarkable talent in mathematics and science from a young age, he studied at King’s College, Cambridge, and later at Princeton University earning his PhD in mathematics.
Congratulations! Engineering Students Hack Triumph, MESA Banquet
May 16, 2024
Graduating Students: Share your career plan after college. Excited to unveil the latest issue of our College of Engineering magazine. Tida Ngov is a remarkable young person on a mission to make a difference in the world.
SJSU Spartan Racing students build Formula and Baja style cars for national competitions
May 2, 2024
ABC7 - Finishing touches are being made on two high-performance race cars at San Jose State. Each year, Spartan Racing creates brand new fully-electric formula SAE and gas-powered Baja-style vehicles.
Celebrating AAPI Month, Rising Star in Software Engineering, The CoE Fab Four and more!
May 2, 2024
Excited to unveil the latest issue of our College of Engineering magazine! Growing up in his hometown of Cupertino, California, Arjun Sudheer, a rising talent in Software Engineering. Recently, four SJSU College of Engineering (CoE) students were invited to be a part of Cisco’s Dream Team. And more...
April 25, 2024
Spencer Vernon Guinther, a graduating senior from Pleasanton, California, has defied his own doubts to carve a path of determination and success in the field of engineering. Recently, students from the SJSU College of Engineering (CoE) Aviation program were invited to Cabrillo Middle School in Santa Clara. In the world of artificial intelligence, a new paradigm has emerged that is revolutionizing the way we approach AI system design and deployment. And more...
Engineering Showcase, Diversity Month and more!
April 18, 2024
On April 15, the College of Engineering (CoE) held its annual Showcase where alumni and industry friends engaged with the next generation of talent, innovation, research, and designs. Discover Prof. Ahmed Banafa’s insightful perspective on the current state of artificial intelligence and its ethical considerations. And more...
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Young Inventions, BMES, CMAA Club and more!
April 11, 2024
Meet Aryan Gaur, class of 2027 freshman who just started his journey here at San Jose State University (SJSU) as a Computer Engineering student. Have you ever considered the possibility that some of the world’s most groundbreaking inventions weren’t conceived by renowned leaders or seasoned engineers, but rather by high school seniors. The annual Bay Area Biomedical Conference took place on April 3, 2024, at the San Jose State University Student Union. And More...
SJSU Is Providing Hands-On Rocketry Experience to Its Students
April 8, 2024
[T]he rocketry program at San José State University (SJSU) is different. Not only do its students get to design airplanes and spacecraft rockets, but they also have an opportunity to build them, test them in the lab, and actually go out and launch them.
Evacuation warning for Big Sur residents near Highway 1 collapse before rain arrives
April 3, 2024
KTVU's Heather Holmes and Christien Kafton speak with Laura Sullivan-Green, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering from San Jose State University about the damage done and what could be changed to prevent it from happening again in the future.
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Women's History Month, AI, and more!
March 28, 2024
Meet Elizabeth Bremberg, a fourth-year Mechanical Engineering major with a Robotics Minor at San José State University. Established in 1950, the Society of Women in Engineering (SWE) is an international not-for-profit educational and service organization. On Monday, March 18, 2024, students from San José State University’s (SJSU) Tech 165 Wireless Communication Technology class were invited to see the inner workings of Sunnyvale, California-based company, Fortinet. And more...
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Women's History Month, TikTok, and more!
March 21, 2024
Kyle Christopher Fitzpatrick is a fourth-year Mechanical Engineering student at San Jose State University. ON MARCH 16, 2024 OVER 670 INDIVIDUALS attended the 10th annual Women in Engineering Conference. Explore what technology professor Ahmed Banafa predicts about the TikTok's future.
Nvidia, San Jose mayor embrace startups at tech titan's AI gathering
March 20, 2024
An Nvidia executive and San Jose's mayor touted Silicon Valley's artificial intelligence and innovation boom at a packed event for startups and entrepreneurs during the tech titan's GTC 2024 gathering.
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Women’s History Month, Nuclear AI, and more!
March 14, 2024
Nikitha Fernandes, a senior in Biomedical Engineering. In 1903, while visiting New York City, Mary Anderson from Birmingham, Alabama, conceived the idea for the windshield wiper. Explore the dynamic frontier of Nuclear AI.
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Club Video Contest, Women’s History Month, Robotaxis, and more!
March 7, 2024
Aburva Govindarajan Sangeetha, a graduating senior majoring in Engineering Technology with a minor in Business Administration at San Jose State University. Congratulations to our e-week contest winners. As we celebrate Women's History Month, it's only fitting that we take a moment to recognize the remarkable contributions of Edith Clarke.
February 29, 2024
Tram Do, a fourth-year student at San Jose State University. Thank you, everyone, for your fantastic video submissions! Bessie Coleman – First black woman to get a pilot’s license in 1921 and Kamora Freeland – Youngest black female to get a private pilot’s license in 2023.
February 22, 2024
Meet Jason Corona: A senior majoring in Mechanical Engineering at San Jose State University. As we welcome Engineering Week, we are hosting our annual video contest. Ken Washington has recently won the 2024 Black Engineering of The Year award (BEYA). Professor Banafa interviews with Fox on the implications of OpenAI's latest breakthrough, Sora.
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Club Video Contest, Black History Month, Exploring AI, and more!
February 15, 2024
Muskaan Kapoor, a senior at San José State University (SJSU), embodies the essence of resilience, determination, and community engagement. As we welcome Engineering Week, we are hosting our annual video contest. Black Student Day at Hewlett Packard. Artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly transforming our world, touching every aspect of our lives from healthcare and finance to transportation and entertainment.
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Black History Month, Exploring AI, and more!
February 8, 2024
Meet Matthew Khoa Hung, a first-year graduate student in M.S. Mechanical Engineering at San José State University. Black History Month celebrates a trio of inventions. Exploring the Challenges and Progress in AI Alignment.
Spartan Engineers: Student Profile, Spartan Racing, Helping Low-Income Students Succeed, and more!
February 1, 2024
Meet Indigo Ramey-Wright, a senior at San Jose State University, majoring in Mechanical Engineering. SJSU is Part of the Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) Project – Giving Hispanic and Low-Income Students a Hand Up! Black History Month Celebrates Lanny Smoot of The Walt Disney Company.
Clots reveal anomalous elastic behavior of fiber networks
January 10, 2024
The adaptive mechanical properties of soft and fibrous biological materials are relevant to their functionality. The emergence of the macroscopic response of these materials to external stress and intrinsic cell traction from local deformations of their structural components is not well understood.
Prof. Anand Ramasubramanian and Prof. John Lee were contributors to the paper.