Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/engineering/about-us/news/index.php
Title: College of Engineering News
Type: HTML

Student Profile – Krishma Perry. WiE Conference Recap. SF Protests Call For a Pause
on AI. SJSU Hosts the North American Computational Linguistics Open Competition.
Student Profile – David D’Amico. $1M Federal Investment Boosts SJSU’s Role in Training
Silicon Valley’s Next Generation of Engineers. Concrete Canoe Team Prepares to Host
Regional Engineering Challenge.
Student Profile – Ayaan Gazali. Building Fabs, Forging Talent: The Campus-to-Clean-Room
Pipeline Takes Shape. SJSU Students Help Power Super Bowl LX Network.
Ring Energy named Sundip “Sonu” Singh Johl Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer effective February 27, 2026. Sundip holds a Bachelor of Science
degree in Electrical Engineering from San Jose State University and a Master of Business
Administration degree from the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration at
the University of Virginia.
Professor Viswanathan and his SJSU College of Engineering students were spotlighted
at Plaza de César Chávez in downtown San Jose, where KRON4 TV’s Jack Molmud interviewed
them about the refurbished penguin display they spent a year developing, highlighting
their dedication, teamwork, and innovative engineering efforts.
Student Profile – Kalino Ruiz. Engineering Students Bring Holiday Magic to Life at
San Jose’s Christmas in the Park. Engineering Students Clubs Take Center Field at
CEFCU Stadium.
For more than 40 years, Christmas in the Park has transformed downtown San José into
a festive holiday experience — and this season, SJSU mechanical engineering students
helped bring one of its classic displays back to life.
Student Profile – Thomas Wong. SJSU Aviation Students Support Air Traffic Controllers
During Shutdown. DMV Approves Waymo’s Expansion Across the Bay Area.
Student Profile – Natalie Dominguez Barrios. NETS Sparks Careers and Creativity with
Alumni Insights and Pumpkin Fun! SJSU Students Win Fetch.ai Award at Cal Hacks 12.0
Student Profile – Ricardo Geusen. SJSU College of Engineering Honors Student Scholars
and Donors at Annual Luncheon. SJSU Engineering Students Plug Into Apple’s Future
of Innovation.
Three San José State University Aviation students were awarded $3,000 scholarships
each from the South County Airport Pilots Association (SCAPA), recognizing their outstanding
dedication to flight training and aviation excellence.
Student Profile – Mateo Johnson. SJSU and Cadence Partner to Power the Next Generation
of Engineers. Spartan Flight: SJSU’s Drone Dream Team Takes Off.
More than 2 billion cups of coffee are consumed around the world every day, making
it the most popular drink on Earth after water. Now, a group of students at San Jose
State University is learning what goes into that perfect cup.
Fall 2025 Engineering Magazine. Student Profile – Dori Hjalmarson. CSU Trustees Award
for Outstanding Achievement. SJSU Engineering Clubs Launch Students Forward.