Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/extend/index.html
Title: SJSU Professional Education: Upgrade Your Career, Upgrade Your Life
Type: HTML

Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyUpgrade Your Career, Upgrade Your Life
Start investing in yourself and your future. Add the degree, certificate, or skills you need to get ahead. Do more at SJSU.
Business & Management
Whether it's strengthening your analytical and problem-solving skills or working as a team to lead a company, SJSU offers convenient, flexible programs to take your career to the next level.
Data & Information Science
SJSU students develop skills to interpret the significance of data and apply data analytics in solving real-world problems.
Education & Humanities
Prepares transformative educators as well as leaders in the field of design and animation through creative tools and technology.
Engineering & Technology
As a prominent contributor to the technology workforce in Silicon Valley, SJSU empowers you to address the challenges facing our generation through an insightful and innovative education.
Health & Human Sciences
SJSU prepares students to advance healthcare and advocate for social justice through applied learning, multidisciplinary research, and leading-edge innovation.
Social Sciences
With a strong foundation in understanding the complexities of human behavior, you'll discern local and global contexts and how to best serve individuals and their communities.
Rankings
Maximizing Your Potential
Enhance your competitiveness in today's challenging market by pivoting to a new career or complementing your bachelor's degree. A Master's degree from SJSU gives you access to more jobs in more organizations--with greater recognition and compensation. The best time to start? Today.
SJSU Alumni
Graduates of San José State University are designing, inventing, and managing the next generation of innovation at these Silicon Valley organizations. Many more support this vibrant community through financial, retail, education, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, social, and public services.
Starting Their Next Chapter
SJSU's Professional and Continuing Education (PaCE) provides pathways for students to reinvent themselves and their careers. With online, hybrid, and on-campus programs — working professionals and full-time students have even more opportunities to achieve their educational, professional, and personal goals.
Industry-Aligned Education
Among all 23 California State Universities, SJSU's Professional and Continuing Education (PaCE) offers one of the most diverse collections of industry-aligned graduate and undergraduate degree programs and certificates.
- Business & Management
- Data & Information Science
- Education & Humanities
- Engineering & Technology
- Health & Human Science
- Social Sciences
For information on upcoming webinars and other activities, visit our
News
Stay up-to-date on all health-related advisories at SJSU, including the latest masking and vaccination guidelines. Health Advisories