Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/global
Title: International Recruitment - San Jose State University
Type: HTML

Welcome Global Spartans!
The International Recruitment and Partnerships program at SJSU recruits international students from all over the World to join us at SJSU in the heart of Silicon Valley. Currently, SJSU has over 3,000 international students from more than 100 different countries, making it one of the largest international student bodies and the top public university hosting international students among master-granting schools in the U.S.
Why SJSU
Land yourself in the heart of Silicon Valley, an innovation hotspot. San José State University brings you to the epicenter of technology and startups, providing programs that pave the way to a successful career and incubators for those creating the companies of tomorrow.
Programs
San José State University is the university to attend if you are seeking limitless possibilities in your academic career. We offer award-winning programs that are as cutting-edge as our Silicon Valley location. Choose from over 250 programs to begin your path toward success.
How to Apply
At SJSU, international students have the opportunity to apply as an undergraduate, graduate, and transfer student. We offer a vast array of bachelor’s and master’s programs, as well as certificate programs that prepare you for a thriving career.
San José State University
Please fill out this form to receive more information about San José State University.
* Required
How to Apply
For more information on How to Apply as an undergraduate, graduate or transfer, visit these links.
Resources for International Students
International students are eligible for scholarships that are merit-based to help with the cost of their education. Fellowships and scholarships are also offered by organizations or agencies other than SJSU. Work together with the Scholarship and Financial Aid Department to find what you may qualify for.
Recruitment Events
Want more information?
Attend a Virtual Info Session
Meet with our Enrollment team, who will:
- Help you identify the right degree program
- Share key information on academic requirements, majors, programs, and campus life
- Assist you throughout the application process
Success Stories
At San José State University, our international students strive for success every single day. Preparing for their careers and joining the dynamic global workforce is possible because of their hard work while studying in one of our exceptional degree programs. Here are just a few of the many success stories our international students have to share.
Get the Skills you Need to Land a Job
Shafi Dayatar is a Software Engineering Alumnus from SJSU. Find out how a degree from SJSU will get you the skills you need to land a job in Silicon Valley.
Find your story at San José State University
San José State University offers a rich and diverse portfolio of programs and services to meet the educational and workforce needs of the University, the region, and around the globe.
Silicon Valley Experience through SJSU
Sameer Saran is a Computer Engineering alumnus, a successful entrepreneur, and the CEO and founder of ParkStash. Hear why Sameer chose SJSU to gain the skills that would launch his career in Silicon Valley.
Experience Spartan Life
Together, 40,000 Spartans strong, we invite you to experience the Spartan Life with us in the heart of Silicon Valley.
SJSU Campus Tour
Take a tour of San José State's beautiful downtown thriving campus.