Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/index.php
Title: Why SJSU Online?
Type: HTML

Apply by July 1 to begin in August 2026!
Watch our latest info session recording to learn from our dedicated SJSU Online Enrollment Counselors, insightful students, and helpful support staff as they highlight our:
-
Valuable and flexible online bachelor's degree programs
-
Cost and numerous financial aid opportunities
-
Comprehensive student success resources
-
Steps to apply and more!
An Accomplished Institution
SJSU is an accomplished, accredited university recognized for its top-tier academics that will push your career and your life forward.
Best Online College in California
Forbes Advisor
Top Public School, Regional West
U.S. News and World Report
Best Public University in the Nation
Wall Street Journal
Get an Authentic SJSU Education
Our programs are taught by award-winning and renowned San José State University faculty. You will receive the same education, learning outcomes, and quality degree as all our SJSU graduates, with the opportunity to proudly cross the stage during your SJSU commencement ceremony.
Earn your bachelor's in Anthropology
Our anthropology degree is a passport to becoming a skilled problem-solver, cultural ambassador, forensic sleuth, social justice advocate, or archaeological explorer. You'll learn to decode human behavior, consult for global companies, support community-based nonprofit organizations, help solve crimes, or shape a better future by understanding our past.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Economics
Through our rigorous curriculum in economic theory, methods, and communication, you will develop valuable decision making and analytical skills and be able to apply your extensive knowledge, from global financial systems to economic history, towards a wide range of careers.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Information Science and Data Analytics
Interested in our Information Science and Data Analytics program? As a graduate of our program, you will have knowledge of software principles and practices, programming concepts and techniques, data structures, and system development methods and practices. With this knowledge and skill set, you will be prepared for a career in data analytics, database administration, UX/UI, technology development, digital curation, cybersecurity, web content and development, and information architecture.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Engineering
Are you interested in our Engineering program? As a graduate of our program, you will be able to apply skills and knowledge in engineering management and statistical quality engineering, applied computing, and innovation and law toward a wide range of employment opportunities that serve existing and emerging technologies.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Educational and Community Leadership
Through exposure to our interdisciplinary curriculum, you will develop leadership skills that promote change, be able to create strategies to manage professional challenges, advocate an anti-racist approach to establish social justice with diverse communities, and much more.
Explore This ProgramApply to SJSU Online Today
Interested in SJSU Online? Let's make it happen—today! Our enrollment team is here to ensure that you have a smooth application experience and are able to turn your dream of completing your degree into a reality.
View Our Steps to ApplyEarn your bachelor's in Business Administration
Our rigorous and challenging curriculum will prepare you to be a successful leader in the dynamic global economy. You will learn to critically evaluate business problems, persuasively communicate ideas, effectively work with diverse teams, and confidently apply evidence-based methods and technology.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Public Health
Our program has a long history of enriching the community health workforce around the world. Our graduates work collaboratively with diverse communities to conduct investigations and create relevant interventions that strengthen community capacity, promote health, and reduce health inequities and disparities.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Public Relations
Through extensive training in strategic, integrated communication media, our graduates are prepared to communicate correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for communications professionals, demonstrate the ability to think critically and creatively, and use tools and technologies appropriate for a wide range of communications professions.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Health Care Leadership
Our interdisciplinary program combines flexible coursework and practical skills that are essential for shaping the future effectiveness and quality of healthcare services. Graduates are equipped with a well-rounded education to pursue careers in allied health roles or progress into a variety of health-related graduate degree programs.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Science, Technology, and Society
This interdisciplinary studies program examines the interconnections between science, technology, and society across different times and places. Our students are trained to make an impact in a wide range of careers, including health care, law and public policy, education, science journalism, environmental studies, and technology design.
Explore This ProgramEarn your bachelor's in Communication Studies
Through our program, you will develop a deep understanding communication theory, research, and practical applications and design your future as a communication leader in a contemporary society. Our graduates are prepared for a wide range of careers in areas such as education, sales, marketing, public relations, human resource development, law, politics, and community service.
Explore This ProgramOur Online Programs
Why SJSU Online?
Flexible Structure
Earn a quality degree from SJSU while balancing your life, family, and work commitments. Complete online classes year-round during 5, 8-week terms.
Rolling Admissions
Apply during any of our 5 rolling admissions cycles so that you can begin your first 8-week term shortly after you've been admitted.
High-Impact Learning
Learn from expert SJSU faculty, engaging course content, and diverse classmates, and earn the same degree as an in-person SJSU student.
Attend a Virtual Info Session
Meet with our helpful Enrollment Counseling team, who will:
- Identify which degree program is right for you
- Work with you to assess your transfer credits
- Answer your questions about how to apply
Stories From Our Community
From 1-on-1 counseling to high-impact advising, gain insight on why SJSU Online is the next step to your success.
Loading video content...
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and AidLet's get started. Request information today.
Fill out this form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn more about how SJSU Online can help you complete your online bachelor's degree.