Source: https://catalog.sjsu.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=17&poid=13713
Title: About
Type: HTML

The Department of Biomedical Engineering is home to dynamic BS and MS engineering programs. Being located in the heart of Silicon Valley, we have developed strong ties and long-standing collaborations with the wide variety of biomedical engineering industries that surround us. These include the spectrum from mature companies that are household names enjoying world-wide recognition to startups that are at the brink of the next revolution in technology. The reputation of our educational programs as providing a unique practical approach built on a strong academic foundation continues to attract students. The Biomedical Engineering Bachelor of Science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org, under the General Program Criteria and the Bioengineering and Biomedical and Similarly Named Engineering Programs Program Criteria.
Program Roadmaps
The 4-Year and 5-Year Roadmaps are available online. Roadmaps should be used in consultation with the catalog and your academic advisor to identify additional requirements for completing the major (for example, course grade minimums).
Major-Specific Graduation Requirements
All courses required in the major, including all electives, must be completed with a grade of C- or better. This includes all courses in the following sections: Preparation for the Major, Requirements of the Major Core Courses, Biomedical Engineering Required Courses. Note that ENGR 100W , BME 198A , BME 198B , ENGR 195A , AND ENGR 195B must be completed with a grade of C or better.
Prerequisite Requirements
Enrollment in any chemistry course requires that the prerequisite courses be passed with a grade of “C or better” (C- not accepted). Exceptions may be made only with instructor consent or if not explicitly stated in the course description. Refer to the SJSU Course Catalog for specific information regarding course prerequisites.