Source: https://catalog.sjsu.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=17&poid=13735
Title: About
Type: HTML

Chemical Engineers combine science with engineering technology to make an essential contribution to many industries, including biotechnology, semiconductor processing, environmental engineering, manufacturing, and industrial chemicals. The Chemical Engineering degree also provides a strong foundation for graduate degrees in a range of disciplines. The Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering has excellent laboratory facilities for courses and student research.
The Chemical Engineering Program at SJSU is designed to provide a solid engineering foundation and then allow the student to develop some specialization in an area of interest. The Chemical Engineering Bachelor of Science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org, under the General Program Criteria and the Chemical, Biochemical, Biomolecular and Similarly Named Engineering Programs Program Criteria. The department also offers a combined Chemical Engineering BS + MS program.
Program Roadmaps
The 4-Year and 5-Year Roadmaps are available online. Roadmaps should be used in consultation with the catalog and your advisor to identify additional requirements for completing the major (for example, course grade minimums). Associate Degrees (ADT) Pathways are also available online.
Major-Specific Graduation Requirements
The following course in Preparation for the Major must be completed with a “C- or Better”: ENGL 1B .
The following required courses in the Major Lower Division Core must be satisfied with a “C- or better”: PHYS 50 , PHYS 51 , MATH 31 , and MATH 32 .
The CHE Sophomore and Junior Core consists of a “C-” or better in {CHE 110A , CHE 110B ,CHE 114 , CHE 115 , CHE 151 , CHE 160A , CHE 162 and CHE 190 } and a “C” or better in ENGR 100W . Students receiving more than one passing grade less than “C-” in any CHE Junior Core course(s) will have to repeat the course(s). Only one passing grade below “C-” is allowed. The Junior Core must be satisfied with a GPA of 2.0 or better. The Junior Core must be satisfied in order to enroll in Senior Core course(s).
The CHE Senior Core consists of {CHE 161L , CHE 163L , CHE 165A , CHE 165B , CHE 185 , CHE 160B , and CHE 158 }. Students receiving more than one passing grade less than a “C-” in any CHE Junior or Senior courses will have to repeat the course(s). Only one passing grade below “C-” is allowed in all CHE core courses. The Senior Core must be satisfied with a GPA of 2.0 or better. Students can repeat any CHE Junior or Senior Core course only once. Failure to pass any CHE Junior or Senior Core course with a grade of “C- or better” after the second attempt will result in disqualification from the CHE major.
Prerequisite Requirements
Enrollment in any chemistry course requires that the prerequisite courses be passed with a grade of “C or better” (C- not accepted). Exceptions may be made only with instructor consent or if not explicitly stated in the course description. Refer to the course descriptions for specific information regarding course prerequisites.