Source: https://catalog.sjsu.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=17&poid=13915
Title: About
Type: HTML

Materials Engineers design, characterize, and manufacture the “stuff” of our everyday world. Semiconductors, metals, polymers, ceramics, and composites are examples of the materials used to make everything around you - from your computer to the chair you are sitting in, from artificial body parts to the skin of the space shuttle. Materials scientists and engineers work in nanotechnology, biotechnology, aerospace, alternative energy, microelectronics and virtually every industry sector.
Major areas of study are the relationships between materials’ structure, properties, processing, and performance. The Materials Engineering program, offered by the Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering , stresses the roles of design, development, and process engineering, and also prepares the exceptional student for research and graduate study. The Department has excellent laboratory facilities for courses and student research.
The Materials Engineering Bachelor of Science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, https://www.abet.org, under the General Program Criteria and the Materials (1), Metallurgical (2), Ceramics (3) and Similarly Named Engineering Programs Program Criteria. The department also offers a combined Materials Engineering BS + MS program.
Program Roadmaps
The 4-Year Roadmap is available online. Roadmaps should be used in consultation with the catalog and your advisor to identify additional requirements for completing the major (for example, course grade minimums). Associate Degrees (ADT) Pathways are also available online.
Major-Specific Graduation Requirements
The following course in Preparation for the Major must be completed with a “C- or Better”: ENGL 1B .
The following required courses in the Major Lower Division Core must be satisfied with a “C- or Better”“, and with a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or better: MATH 30 , MATH 31 , MATH 32 , CHE 110A , PHYS 50 , PHYS 51 , CHEM 1A , CHEM 1B , CE 99 (or CE 95 ), ME 20 , MATE 25 , and ENGR 10 .
The MATE Junior Core consists of a “C-” or better in {MATE 115 , MATE 141 , MATE 151 , MATE 153 , MATE 154 and MATE 155 } and a “C” or better in ENGR 100W . Students receiving more than one passing grade less than “C-” in any CHEMATE Junior Core course(s) will have to repeat the course(s). Only one passing grade below “C-” is allowed. The Junior Core must be satisfied with a GPA of 2.0 or better. The Junior Core must be satisﬁed in order to enroll in Senior Core course(s).
The MATE Senior Core consists of {MATE 186 , MATE 195 , MATE 198A , MATE 198B , MATE 185 , and MATE 152 }. Students receiving more than one passing grade less than a “C-” in any MATE Junior or Senior courses will have to repeat the courses. Only one passing grade below “C-” is allowed in all MATE core courses. The Senior Core must be satisfied with a GPA of 2.0 or better.
Prerequisite Requirements
Enrollment in any chemistry course requires that the prerequisite courses be passed with a grade of “C or better” (C- not accepted). Exceptions may be made only with instructor consent or if not explicitly stated in the course description. Refer to the course descriptions for specific information regarding course prerequisites.