Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/research
Title: Office of Research
Type: HTML

Office of Research
Silicon Valley's Public R2 University: Making Tomorrow Better, Faster
Investment in SJSU research accelerates advancements in technology, health, transportation, and beyond. Breakthroughs at SJSU not only shape our future, but also contribute to the university's $4 billion total economic infusion.
Ethical AI
With powerful government investment and private partnerships, we meet real-world challenges with new solutions straight from the heart of Silicon Valley.
Wildfire Research
A multi-disciplinary approach to fire science and policy displays our commitment to mitigating a critical environmental factor of our time.
Transportation
The nation comes to Mineta Transportation Institute for research to guide decisions on safety, sustainability, and human rights.
What if we could find cures to disease — and boost the economy?
That’s exactly what competitive federal funding does at SJSU. Through our NIH funding, SJSU returns tens of millions of dollars to the local economy — while saving lives.
An Exoskeleton for Every Body
Dr. Mojtaba Sharifi and his team are creating a full-body exoskeleton to transform mobility for people with disabilities. It's the kind of practical, life-changing health innovation SJSU is known for. It also equips students with in-demand skills and contributes to economic growth.
Blood Clots
How do blood clots form, and what happens when they don’t? SJSU researchers are engineering answers with valuable clinical potential.
A New Kind of Skin Graft
Vascular grafts fail too often. Dr. Patrick Jurney is developing a new type of synthetic graft to help patients with heart disease.
Solutions for All Walks
Recent patents include an AI-powered breast pump and a wearable device to help football players at risk of concussion.
The Future of U.S. Economic Resilience
From nanotechnology to aviation, packaging to policy, SJSU is Silicon Valley’s largest workforce supplier, aligned with national priorities like advanced manufacturing and technological independence.
Semiconductors
As a Department of Defense AI Hardware Hub partner, SJSU plays a key role in building a self-sufficient national technology workforce.
Life's Biggest Questions
Through the ASPIRE program, SJSU partners with NASA to give students hands-on research experience in exobiology and astrobiology.
Future Health Leaders
Broaden and Build is one of several SJSU career programs offering low-risk, high-yield pathways into a range of health professions.
The Hardest Working Show in the Human Business
SJSU humanities and arts events reach 48,000 attendees through over 500 annual programs. Three-quarters of attendees say they gained valuable knowledge.
Ready for What Comes Next
State and federally funded research builds civic understanding and cultural resilience. Dr. Erica Eva Colmenares studies how to best prepare future educators — particularly for times of precarity.
The Future of 3D Printing
Future realities begin with an artist's imagination. Virginia San Fratello brings to life 3D prints made of salt and earth.
Digital Humanities Center
At the crossroads of tech and the human story, digital tools create a reality never possible before.
Public Partnerships
Collaborating with the community in humanities and arts builds trust and civic engagement.
Social Good Saves Taxpayer Money
A Stanford analysis of the Record Clearance Project shows that clients received an annual increase of $6,190 in income after expungement, with an estimated government gain of $34,308 over three years. When programs improve lives while also benefitting the community, we can't afford to not invest.
Experimental Economics
Simulating real scenarios and applying behavioral science to market dynamics guides us toward optimal return on investment.
Research Opportunity
Mentored research improves student outcomes. The Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program aims to maximize the impact.
Smart Returns
For every $1 in state funding, SJSU generates approximately $24 in economic output. That's an unbeatable return for California, and the nation.