Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/science/students/college-of-science-minor-applications.php
Title: College of Science Minor Applications
Type: HTML

College of Science Minor Applications
Steps to Apply to a College of Science Minor
- Students interested in applying to add a College of Science Minor should review the requirements of their minor of interest before applying. Minor information and requirements are listed below.
- Complete a College of Science Minor Application by clicking on the link (available during the application period) below for the minor for which you are applying. The application links will take you to a DocuSign application. Incomplete applications will not be processed. Once your application has been reviewed a DocuSign copy is sent to you. You can access the petition through your DocuSign account.
Note: You must complete the DocuSign application and the minor application with SJSU credentials.
After you review the minor requirements (see below), you can contact a College of Science minor advisor prior to completing an application if you have questions. Minor advisor contact information can be found here: https://www.sjsu.edu/science-ssc/apply-to-a-major-minor/apply-to-a-minor/index.php
Minor Application Deadlines
Fall semester: October 1
Spring semester: March 1
All Minor Applications and supporting documents must be submitted by the deadline. If you miss the deadline, please apply for the next semester. If you missed the deadline and you are graduating this semester, please email science-academicprograms@sjsu.edu as soon as possible.
Minor applications will be reviewed and finalized 6-8 weeks after submission. A completed DocuSign does not guarantee approval of the minor application. Applicants must open the completed DocuSign to review for approval or denial and follow up as needed. If you have questions, please email science-academicprograms@sjsu.edu
Click the links below for information regarding College of Science Minors and the requirements before completing a minor application.
NOTE: The application links will be available on this page from September 1 - October 1 for the Fall semester and January 30 - March 1 for the Spring semester.
Astronomy Minor: Catalog Information
Atmospheric and Seismic Hazards Minor: Catalog Information
Bioinformatics Minor: Catalog Information
Biological Sciences Minor: Catalog Information
Broadcast Meteorology Minor: Catalog Information
Chemistry Minor: Catalog Information
Climate Change Strategies Minor: Catalog Information
Computer Science Minor: Catalog Information
Geology Minor: Catalog Information
Mathematics Minor: Catalog Information
Physics Minor: Catalog Information
Science Education Minor: Catalog Information
Statistics Minor: Catalog Information
Wildfire Science Minor: Catalog Information