Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/science/students/scholarships.php
Title: Scholarships
Type: HTML

Scholarships
Students with a declared major in the College of Science may apply for all available scholarships via the SJSU Scholarship Portal
The College of Science Scholarships are now open for the 2026-2027 academic year. The deadline to submit your application is April 10, 2026.
Alumni Association Scholarship
Open to graduate and undergraduate students in the College of Science with overall 3.0 GPA or higher. Applicants must demonstrate community service and/or participate in student organizations. Award applied equally to the student’s account for Fall and Spring and is conditional on full-time enrollment each term. Scholarship recipients will be asked to attend the Alumni Association Scholarship Reception in the Fall.
Archimedes Scholarship
A one time scholarship awarded to a student who show exemplary promise as a scientist. Scholar will be selected from an on-campus unit of the College of Science in one year and from Moss Landing Marine Laboratories in the alternate year. The recipient will be known as the Archimedes Scholar for that academic year.
This year we will be accepting applicants who are undergraduate or graduate students majoring in one of the following departments: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geology, Mathematics & Statistics, Meteorology & Climate Science, Physics & Astronomy.
Claudia Greathead Scholarship Endowment for Science
A one time scholarship awarded to undergraduate students who are matriculated, full-time and are in good academic standing. Students must have a declared major in the College the Science.
Preference given to:
1. Have completed the FAFSA or CA Dream Act
2. Highest reviewer scores*
3. Cumulative GPA of 3.0
Davison President’s Scholar Endowment
This is four-year full academic scholarship to cover fees for entering first-year students who declared major in Biology (any concentration) or Chemistry with a concentration in Biochemistry and are National Merit Scholars, National Merit Scholar Finalists and High School Valedictorians. Recipients must be California residents and demonstrate a strong record of leadership and service in their high schools and communities.
Additional scholarships will be available for students with minimum GPA of 3.75.
Herbert and Nell Richards Scholarship
This is intend to provide four-year full academic scholarship to deserving, matriculated, full-time undergraduate students who demonstrate financial need. Students must have a declared major in the College the Science.
Preference given to:
1. Students with demonstrated financial need demonstrated by the FAFSA or Dream Act
2. Have a cumulative SJSU GPA between 3.5 and 4.0.
3. Highest reviewer scores*
Robert P. Oates President's Scholarship
This is four-year full academic scholarship that provide to a student in Mathematics, Computer Science or the Physical Sciences. Scholarship recipients are recommended, but will not be required, to be National Merit Scholars, National Merit Scholar finalists or High School Valedictorians. They are required to have a cumulative GPA 3.75, must be California residents for tuition purposes and demonstrate a strong record in leadership and service in their high schools and communities.
Preference for incoming freshman who are first generation college students or students who have been successful in their freshman year.
Science Education Scholarship Fund
This scholarship is for students in the Science Single Subject Credential Program.
Susan Barling-Frye Memorial Scholarship
The Susan Barling-Frye Memorial Scholarship was established to provide scholarships for students in the College of Science teaching credential program. Award is given (if possible) to a single parent pursuing a teaching credential. Second priority given to student in the prep to teach in the Department of Biological Sciences.
Contact Information
Lisa Andreasen: lisa.andreasen@sjsu.edu