Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/science/students/student-research-support-programs.php
Title: Student Research Support Programs
Type: HTML

Student Research Support Programs
GeoPaths
Apply for SJSU GeoPaths through this Google Form.
GeoPaths is a National Science Foundation funded program for first-year, second-year, and transfer students who are undeclared or interested in switching majors to geoscience. The goal of the program is to create a knowledge and support system for new geology majors at San Jose State University through peer, graduate, and faculty mentorship and guidance. GeoPaths is about closing the broad gap in geoscience education equity by engaging, mentoring, and training the next generation of geoscientists. For more info, please visit the website here.
Student RSCA Fellowship (SRF)
Applications are closed for the 2025-2026 academic year. Applications open in fall, with a deadline in early spring, for work taking place the following year. More details here.
The Student RSCA Fellowship (SRF) supports undergraduate and graduate students, and provides a $500 honorarium to their faculty mentors. Awards of up to $3,000 will be granted to the thirty-four selected SRF student participants. Students must complete the entire program and must remain matriculated through the end of the spring semester.
Funds from this program are intended for student compensation and RSCA-related travel. Student participants and their faculty mentors will join a mentoring-focused cohort that meets throughout the academic year, with workshops conducted by representatives from the Office of Research. Workshops will include sessions on broader RSCA issues such as ethics, diversity, and presentation skills. The program will culminate with students presenting their research posters at the annual Celebration of Research event.
Contact Information: funding-information@sjsu.edu.
Student RSCA Competition (SRC)
Applications open annually in September with a deadline in early spring. Develop your project now and return to this page to apply for the spring competition!
The Student RSCA Competition (SRC) allows SJSU graduate and undergraduate students to present their original RSCA and compete for selection as SJSU representatives at both SJSU’s Celebration of Research annual event, and the statewide Annual California State University Student Research Competition hosted by San Diego State University in the spring.
This competition provides an opportunity for RSCA-active students to present their work and gain feedback from a panel of SJSU subject matter expert. Students must be currently enrolled undergraduate or graduate students. Students must also be working on original RSCA with a faculty member at SJSU. Each individual finalist or finalist group will receive a $300 award to support travel to the CSU-wide competition in San Diego at the end of April.
Contact Information: funding-information@sjsu.edu.
Noyce Program
The Noyce Program sponsored by the National Science Foundation funds students interested in becoming math teachers for 3 years ($10K/yr) to become credentialed math teachers.
David Goulette, Executive Director
Email: david.goulette@sjsu.edu
COAST Undergraduate Student Research Support Program
The COAST (CSU Council on Ocean Affairs, Science & Technology) Undergraduate Student Research Support Program provides funding to every campus in the CSU to support undergraduate student participation in faculty‐mentored marine, coastal, and coastal watershed research. The goal of this program is to engage students interested in pursuing marine related careers and provide them with the opportunity to obtain the skills necessary to join a highly skilled, technologically advanced workforce while promoting and supporting CSU faculty research. Funding awarded to students can be used to support research related activities, small stipends, and supplies.
Prof. Maya deVries, COAST Representative
Duncan Hall 340
Email: maya.devries@sjsu.edu
Prof. Ryan Portner, COAST Representative
Duncan Hall 202
Email: ryan.portner@sjsu.edu
Math Engineering Science Achievement (MESA)
Established in 1970, the Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement (MESA) Program is one of the country's oldest and most successful programs to assist educationally disadvantaged and first-generation students attain degrees in math, engineering and science from four-year institutions
Contact Information:
Susan Arias, Director
Duncan Hall 241
Phone: (408) 924-5034
Email: susan.arias@sjsu.edu
Undergraduate Research Training Initiative for Student Enhancement (U-RISE) Program
National Institute of Health's Undergraduate Research Training Initiative for Student Enhancement (U-RISE) awards provide support for undergraduate students to diversify biomedical and behavioral sciences. The program also supports efforts to strengthen the science course curricula, pedagogical skills of faculty and biomedical research training.
Contact Information:
Prof. Cleber Ouverney, Director
Duncan Hall 439
Phone: (408) 924-4806
Email: cleber.ouverney@sjsu.edu
The California State University Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (CSU-LSAMP)
The overall goal of the program of this NSF funded program is to assist universities and colleges in diversifying the nation's science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) workforce. At SJSU, LSAMP supports Academic Excellence Workshops (Sci 1) for Chemistry courses and research opportunities in STEM fields.
Contact Information:
Prof. Karen Singmaster
Duncan Hall 016
Phone: (408) 924-4980
Email: karen.singmaster@sjsu.edu
Cal-Bridge Program
The Cal-Bridge program is sponsored by the National Science Foundation, and supports CSU undergraduates in physics and astronomy to pursue research careers by entering PhD programs,in a partnership with the University of California.The program provides up to $10,000 per year of scholarship funds, faculty mentoring, professional development workshops, and summer research placement (in partnership with CAMPARE). Students from underrepresented backgrounds, including first-generation college students, are particularly encouraged to apply.
Contact Information:
Prof. Aaron Romanowsky, Co-Director
Science 235
Phone: (408) 924-5225
Email: aaron.romanowsky@sjsu.edu