Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/socialsciences/about/leadership/associate-dean.php
Title: Dr. Clifton Oyamot
Type: HTML

Dr. Clifton Oyamot
Clifton is Associate Dean for Academics and Student Success, a position he has held since 2023. He is deeply rooted in the SJSU community, and over the years has held numerous leadership roles. He has been a faculty member in the SJSU Psychology Department since 2005, and served as Department Chair. Clifton is deeply committed to student success and has a proven track record in academic leadership.
During his term as Chair of the Department of Psychology, psychology student graduation rates rose significantly, reaching historical highs of over 60% for freshman 4-year and transfer student 2-year graduation rates. This was achieved through collaborative work with faculty, through strategic enrollment management and course scheduling, enhancing advising, and supporting inclusive teaching practices.
Clifton taught a wide range of undergraduate and graduate courses at SJSU, including Introduction to Psychology, Social Psychology, Personality Psychology, and Research Methods. He is passionate about teaching and mentoring students, and he is committed to creating a supportive and engaging learning environment. He has served as a thesis advisor for numerous master's students and honors undergraduates.
Clifton's research integrates social psychological and personality perspectives. He
explores how social norms and cultural values impact tolerance toward immigrants and
sexual minorities, the psychology of "clutter" as it relates to identity, and aspects
of interpersonal relationships (personality and social media use; power dynamics in
close relationships). His scholarly work has appeared in leading journals such as
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, Journal of Social and Personal Relationships,
and Political Psychology. He actively involves undergraduate and graduate students
in his research, many of whom have co-authored and presented research at conferences.
Clifton received a Google Research Award to investigate how personality influences
social worlds and identities online. He has also contributed to interdisciplinary
projects with the College of Engineering on student success.
Clifton is dedicated to fostering student success and his experience as a first generation
college student informs his approach to this important mission.