Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/transform
Title: SJSU — Transformation Defined
Type: HTML

Testimonials of Transformation
Cornelio (CJ) Balmaceda
’20 Justice Studies
“I was never even supposed to be in college, let alone get accepted to SJSU. But the
moment I stepped onto campus, everything changed for the better. One of the best ways
SJSU transformed my life was by being introduced to lifelong friends and developing
many connections. I will forever cherish my days at SJSU, and because I attended there,
I am a better individual. Thank you SJSU!”
Tara Caughlan
’16 MA Environmental Studies
“I met so many amazing students and staff at SJSU. In the environmental studies program,
I was surrounded by people who wanted to make the world a better place. I now work
at the San Francisco Zoo, which is dedicated to conservation, both local and distant.
My studies at SJSU helped me see the plight of animals in a much larger context. Thank
you, SJSU!”
Tommy Wen Chin
’22 Physics
“[My SJSU professor] gave me the courage that I had been longing for to pursue physics.
Every day since then, I have been very grateful for the opportunity to pursue what
I truly love.”
Laurel Eby
’10 MA Library and Information Science
“I was a stay-at-home mom for 10 years when I decided to go back to school to get
a master's degree in library and information science. A year after I graduated I started
working at the King Library in February 2012, and just finished my ninth year there.
I love working in the MLK Library, and on the SJSU campus. San José State truly transformed
my life!”
Alec Giurlani
Academic Advisor, H&A Student Success Center
“As a student at SJSU, I was diagnosed with Stage 3 cancer. The entire College of
Humanities and the Arts was so understanding and worked with me through my whole cancer
journey. I never expected SJSU to be such a kind and loving family. Thankfully, I
am now more than five years cancer-free and working full time at SJSU as an academic
advisor. I’m grateful for SJSU and the opportunity to give back.”
Carl Henderson
’04 African American Studies
“My time at SJSU was a great transformation. As a transfer student from the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point, I arrived in San José deflated and depressed. I found positivity
and inspiration within the Xi Gamma Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity. After graduation
I pursued coaching...with the life mission of ‘encouraging students to have a dream
and admonishing them to have courage through adversity.’ My time at SJSU, though full
of trials and tribulations, was the greatest time of my life.”
Marielle Lacanlale
’22 Nursing
“If I had not gone to SJSU to pursue nursing, I would not have been able to develop
the work ethic that I have now to achieve my goals. SJSU has also provided me with
a very strong Filipino community. I had also grown a very close knit friend group
that has been able to support me in my journey throughout college. Now that I am in
the nursing school here, SJSU has provided me with so many opportunities to make a
difference within my community.”
Alexandra Salazar
’20 Molecular Biology
“Coming to SJSU introduced me to the mentors that would see my potential and help
transform me into the scientist I am becoming. Thanks to the resources and guidance
I received at SJSU, I will begin pursuing my PhD in neuroscience at the Scripps Research
Institute starting fall 2021.”
Norman K. Tuitavuki
’17 MA Transportation Management
“I completed a graduate degree from San Jose Staté University several years ago. Without
this formal training, I don’t know where I’d be at this moment in my life. The education
I received from San Jose Staté has given me the tools I need to advance my career
upward.”