Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/about/research
Title: Research and Innovation
Type: HTML

Research and Innovation
Pursuing Local and Global Solutions
Recognizing the impact San José State students and faculty members have on the campus community, the region and the world through their research, SJSU has made research a top priority. San José State's research endeavors play a critical role in preparing graduate and undergraduate students, who work side by side with faculty mentors. With $60 million in annual research, SJSU is a top-200 school nationally in terms of research spending. The university's students and faculty members apply their inherent creativity and diversity of thought and experience to a range research—from wildfire weather, Mexican philosophy and ultra compact dwarf galaxies to water delivery devices, high-performance computing and Silicon Valley culture. Some of our major programs include the Mineta Transportation Institute, Moss Landing Marine Labs and human factors research at NASA.
Engaged Research Environment
Division of Research and Innovation
The Division of Research and Innovation works with the campus to seek internal and external support for student and faculty researchers, who perform basic and applied research, public service and community projects, consulting and other activities.
The SJSU Research Foundation serves the university by providing a robust research infrastructure, overseeing 410+ active grants and contracts. Setting up a new venture? Consider partnering with SJSU faculty members and students.
Created in January 2019, the College of Graduate Studies supports the development and vibrancy of premier quality graduate programs, and serves the scholarly and professional needs of graduate students at the university and into their careers.
Corporate and Foundation Partnerships
Funding, Training and Support
Tools for Student and Faculty Researchers
San José State provides the tools researchers need to thrive. From identifying funding and proposal writing to managing an award, the Office of Research, SJSU Research Foundation, Center for Faculty Development and King Library support student and faculty researchers contributing to a range of fields.