Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/about/partnerships.php
Title: Partnerships
Type: HTML

CommUniverCity San José is a collaborative project of the Five Wounds/Brookwood Terrace
communities, San José State and the city of San José. The unique organization empowers
students and residents to build community through service-learning projects that address
education, community health and improvements to the neighborhood.
The Hammer Theatre Center is a unique performing arts facility that serves as a nexus
between the university and the community, San José and the Bay Area, and local and
global talent. It produces and presents innovative programming that reflects Silicon
Valley’s culture of creativity, diversity and technology. Audiences are invited to
experience the beauty, spontaneity and human connection made possible through live
performance.
Led by San José State, Moss Landing Marine Labs hosts and administers an interdisciplinary
Master of Science in Marine Science degree for a consortium of seven California State
University campuses in Northern and Central California. The great wealth of nearby
marine resources, the faculty emphasis on mentoring and teaching with integrated research,
and the excellent facilities, staff, and marine operations contribute to make Moss
Landing one of the best marine science programs in the U.S.
In partnership with the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business, the Mineta
Transportation Institute is a national University Transportation Center and a Center
of Excellence specializing in policy studies related to surface transportation.
San José State has partnered with NASA's Ames Research Center for many years to produce
innovative research as well as address critical Silicon Valley education and economic
needs, among other initiatives and programs.
The Timpany Center is a nonprofit program managed under the auspices of the San José
State Research Foundation. Its therapeutic facilities are operated by SJSU's Department
of Kinesiology in the College of Health and Human Sciences in conjunction with the
county of Santa Clara.
San José State partners with Santa Clara County’s Reid-Hillview Airport to train students
for careers in aviation, airline maintenance, administration and technology. Graduates
work in many aspects of the industry including flight, airport management, purchasing,
marketing, quality control, technical management and military aviation. The Reid-Hillview
Aviation Facility includes a 5,000-square-foot hangar housing aircraft and engines
used to teach students.