Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/academics/colleges-and-departments.php
Title: Colleges and Departments
Type: HTML

Colleges and Departments
Lucas College and Graduate School of Business
The largest provider of business graduates to Silicon Valley, the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business is a major contributor to what the region is today. The college’s key initiatives are deeply connected with Silicon Valley—from a Career Readiness Program that builds strong professional, job search and networking skills to entrepreneurship efforts that use project-based learning and student competitions to develop an “entrepreneurial mindset,” to research and experiential learning that advances growth opportunities for both students and faculty members.
Connie L. Lurie College of Education
The Connie L. Lurie College of Education prepares educators who want to be change-makers by enhancing the quality of education for all students. Along with members of the college’s faculty and staff, graduates are prepared for the ethical challenges and responsibilities of educators in our culturally diverse, technologically complex, democratic society.
Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering
SJSU provides more entry-level engineers to Silicon Valley companies than any other university (#1 at Cisco, #1 at Apple). The Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering provides students in the undergraduate program and the growing graduate program opportunities to learn and research in the world’s center of innovation and technology. Committed to practical education, real-world experience and social responsibility, the college prepares students to tackle critical issues such as clean energy, smart transportation and cybersecurity.
Created in January 2019, the College of Graduate Studies serves as a center for advocacy for San Jose State's approximately 8,000 graduate students. The college supports the development and vibrancy of the university's graduate programs, and serves the scholarly and professional needs of graduate students at SJSU and as they transition into their careers.
College of Health and Human Sciences
The College of Health and Human Sciences prepares public health and human sciences professionals to confront the world’s diverse challenges to health and well-being. Through collaboration and innovation, the college employs an interdisciplinary approach to teaching, service and research to address the lifelong, holistic health and wellness of Silicon Valley and beyond.
College of Humanities and the Arts
What are the intersections of humanities, arts and tech—structurally, intellectually and ethically? The College of Humanities and the Arts provides a high-quality liberal arts education focusing on creativity, innovation and problem solving. The college prepares students to be compassionate, engaged, critical thinkers, graduating the artists, writers, teachers, philosophers and entertainers who inspire the future.
College of Information, Data & Society
The College of Information, Data & Society offers interdisciplinary and forward-looking academic programs that prepare students to address the world’s increasing challenges around analyzing, managing, protecting, securing, designing, organizing, and preserving data, information, records, and archives through technology-oriented and user-focused practices and solutions.
Professional and Global Engagement
Professional and Global Engagement provides students with dynamic new ways to go to college. Serving adult professionals as well as local, international and online students, PGE programs provide graduate degrees and certificates, professional development and corporate training, remote access and undergraduate credit. The college is the gateway to Silicon Valley for students around the globe.
The College of Science prepares students for rewarding careers in the sciences through research and scholarship. Funded by agencies and foundations such as the National Science Foundation, NASA and more, research conducted by students and faculty members covers critically important and diverse topics, from climate change, aquaculture and cybersecurity to the meaning of time. Faculty-student collaborations push the limits of existing knowledge by making teach and research inseparable.
The College of Social Sciences prepares students for impactful careers in fields such as business, government, communication and law, while empowering them as democratic participants in a rapidly changing world. Emphasizing the contributions of the many cultures that call Silicon Valley home, the 12 departments focus on personal interaction between students and faculty members, as well as service to the community.