Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/academics/centers.php
Title: Centers and Institutes
Type: HTML

Centers and Institutes
Thought Leadership. Academic Excellence.
By intentionally blurring the lines between and among disciplines, San Jose State ignites curiosity and fosters innovation among students, faculty members, industry partners and future employers.
Big Data and Cybersecurity Center
The Silicon Valley Big Data and Cybersecurity Center supports the development of a broadly informed and well prepared citizenry and workforce who understand the security, privacy and policy challenges of a highly integrated, information-rich world, and who have an appreciation of how big data methods can be used to gather, extract and present information.
The Center for STEM Education is a collaborative effort dedicated to increasing the capacity of teachers to deliver effective instruction in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM); inspiring and mentoring youths to enter and excel in the STEM career pipeline; and inspiring and supporting SJSU STEM students to mentor youth in STEM-related endeavors.
Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship
The Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship is dedicated to cultivating and supporting entrepreneurs and promotes entrepreneurship through knowledge dissemination, collaborative partnerships and activities such as lectures and fairs.
Ira F. Brilliant Center for Beethoven Studies
Housed in SJSU's King Library, the Beethoven Center is an extensive library and museum devoted solely to the life, works and accomplishments of Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827).
Martha Heasley Cox Center for Steinbeck Studies
Also housed in SJSU's King Library, the Steinbeck Center promotes Steinbeck’s goals of empathy and mutual understanding through public programming, free curriculum for teachers, and fellowships for emerging writers.
Center for Comparative Philosophy
The Center for Comparative Philosophy aims to promote and enhance research and scholarship in comparative philosophy, the concerns of which cut across disciplines and areas of philosophy.