Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/acctfin/student-resources/associations.php
Title: Student Associations
Type: HTML

Student Associations
Beta Alpha Psi
Beta Alpha Psi Mission: To increase awareness of accounting, finance, and information system careers; to place an emphasis on the needs of our members and to develop within our members the personal and professional skills needed to enter the workforce and excel in their chosen careers.
Advisors:
Financial Management Association
Established in 1969, the SJSU FMA has been nationally recognized for itsmembership, activities, corporate sponsorship and outstanding web site. More recently, in 1988, FMA was inducted into the National Financial Management Association. During the 98-99 school year, membership grew to over one hundred members. FMA makes finance fun, real, and exciting by linking student members' technical classroom skills with guest speakers' business-world experiences, thus encouraging student interaction. The club draws mainly from finance students, but officers and members alike are also drawn from such diverse backgrounds as management, economics, and accounting. Using both formal and informal activities (e.g., professional guest speakers and sporting events) furthers the opportunity for members to enhance managerial, interpersonal, and social skills.
Advisors:
Institute of Management Accountants
Institute of Management Accountants members are today’s leaders,managers, and decision makers in management accounting and financial management. As Members, we are dedicated to continued professional development, to achieving the highest levels of professional certification, and to supporting each other in our commitment to professional excellence.
Advisors:
ISACA
With more than 23,000 ISACA members in over 100 countries, the Information Systems Audit and Control Association® (ISACA™) is a recognized global leader in IT governance, control and assurance. Founded in 1969, ISACA sponsors international conferences, administers the globally respected CISA® (Certified Information Systems Auditor™) designation earned by more than 26,000 professionals worldwide, and develops globally applicable information systems (IS) auditing and control standards.
Advisor:
The Banking and Investment Association
The Banking and Investment Association is an undergraduate organization at San José State University, working closely with the faculty and its office members to enhance the undergraduate experience and meet the needs of the student body. The organization was created on Spring ‘09 as the Banking and Financial Services Club. After merging with Spartan Investors, a new club was made. Our main goal is to promote activities that benefit the financial community, students, and faculty. In doing so we are able to develop strong leaders in finance.