Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/acctfin/student-resources/scholarships.php
Title: Scholarship Opportunities
Type: HTML

Scholarship Opportunities
Department of Accounting and Finance Scholarships
The Department of Accounting and Finance has numerous scholarships available, each with different requirements. Thank you to our individual donors, the Accounting Advancement Center, and the Center for Banking and Financial Services at SJSU!
Ernie Cortes Outstanding Accounting Student
Recipient must be a senior concentrating in accounting with a minimum GPA of 3.4.
Outstanding Accounting Information Systems Student
Recipient must be a senior concentrating in accounting information systems with a minimum GPA of 3.4.
Outstanding Corporate Accounting and Finance Student
Recipient must be a senior concentrating in corporate accounting and finance with a minimum GPA of 3.4.
Outstanding Finance Student:
Recipient must be a senior concentrating in finance with a minimum GPA of 3.4.
Anu Vuorikoski-Bullis Memorial Scholarship:
Recipient must be a finance or corporate accounting and finance student with a GPA of at least 3.4.
CBFS Scholarships sponsored by AvidBank, Bridge Bank, Heritage Bank, Technology Credit Union, Star One Credit Union, Union Bank, Keypoint Credit Union, PremiereOne Credit Union, MeriWest Credit Union:
Recipients must be a finance, corporate accounting and finance, or accounting student with a GPA of at least 3.3. Recipients must have completed 9 semester units in concentration courses, currently be enrolled in at least 6 units in Spring, and attend CBFS Scholarship ceremony.
Ivy and Kenneth Laverty Scholarship:
Recipient must be a mature student with a good GPA.
Johanson & Yau Scholarship for Diversity in Accounting:
Recipient must be a full-time, undergraduate accounting student with a GPA of 3.0. Preference is given to juniors and seniors who identify with an under-represented population.
John D. Luckhardt Scholarship in Accounting:
Recipient must be an accounting student with a minimum GPA of 2.5.
T. Kyle Williams Memorial Scholarship:
Recipient must be a member of Beta Alpha Psi, maintain a high GPA, and plan a career in public accounting.
Mark and Kathy Loveless Scholarship:
Recipient must be a veteran with current or past active-duty military service, a concentration in accounting, and a high GPA.
Michael Williams Honorarium Scholarships:
Scholarships awarded to accounting students in honor of Prof. Mallory McWilliams, Prof. Arnold Pahler, Prof. Louis Fischel, alums Bruce Levin, Michael Honeycutt and Lisa Zaccheo Allen. Recipients must have completed the course in financial auditing or cases in corporate accounting and finance, be working students, and be engaged with SJSU.
Steven and Karen Busch Scholarship:
Recipient must be a graduating senior enrolling in the SJSU MSA or MST programs.
Wayne H. and Frances G. Towne Scholarship:
Recipient must be a full-time accounting student with a GPA of 3.0.