Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/why-sjsu.php
Title: Why SJSU?
Type: HTML

Why SJSU?
What’s the next big thing? You are.
San José State University has always been a place of firsts. And we’re still leading the way.
When you become a student at San José State, we will never stop offering you the latest and greatest, giving the best of us so you can be your best self. Whether you are the first in your family to hone your skills in college or a future legend in your field of choice, SJSU’s team of champions offers world-class opportunities in learning, work, and community to prepare you for a future of limitless possibilities.
Imagine Yourself Here
Loading video content...
Your Health and Well-being
SJSU's Mission and Values
Career Pathways
Spartan Testimonials
Stories of Transformation at SJSU
A university education can be measured in many ways, such as in degrees earned, years of study accomplished, money spent or saved, lifelong friendships made, or mentorships and relationships formed. San José State University was named the #1 Most Transformative University in the nation by Money magazine, in part, because Spartans say that SJSU has helped them transform and effect positive change, not only for themselves but also for their communities.
Marielle Lacanlale
’22 Nursing
“If I had not gone to SJSU to pursue nursing, I would not have been able to develop the work ethic that I have now to achieve my goals. SJSU has also provided me with a very strong Filipino community. Now that I am in the nursing school here, SJSU has provided me with so many opportunities to make a difference within my community.”
Tommy Wen Chin
’22 Physics
“[My SJSU professor] gave me the courage that I had been longing for to pursue physics. Every day since then, I have been very grateful for the opportunity to pursue what I truly love.”
Alexandra Salazar
’20 Molecular Biology
“Coming to SJSU introduced me to the mentors that would see my potential and help transform me into the scientist I am becoming. Thanks to the resources and guidance I received at SJSU, I will begin pursuing my PhD in neuroscience at the Scripps Research Institute starting fall 2021.”
Rankings and Accomplishments
Want to Learn More?
Requirements and Next Steps for Admission
Learn more about GPA and course requirements or register for our next workshop to learn how to fill out an application for San José State.
Social Media
Join Our Community
Stay up to date with what's going on at San José State, what our students are up to, enrollment information and campus updates by following us on social media.