Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/freshman/want-to-apply/success-programs/index.php
Title: Success Programs
Type: HTML

Success Programs
Early Start Program
The CSU Early Start Program gives first-time, first-year students an opportunity to sharpen their mathematics and writing skills in the summer before the start of their first year.
Dual Enrollment
SJSU Dual Enrollment Programs allow students to earn high school and college college credit simultaneously for courses taken at or certified by San José State University. Courses are similar to Advanced Placement courses, but do not culminate in a high stakes exam.
Educational Opportunity Program (EOP)
EOP provides a community, support services, and a small grant for eligible students during
their undergraduate education at SJSU. All students who qualify as a California Resident
or AB 540 student from an educationally disadvantaged and low income background are
encouraged to apply by submitting a completed EOP Application through Cal State Apply with their admission application.
EOPS at the Community College
All incoming transfer students from the California Community College system who wish
to join EOP at San José State must submit a complete EOP application and follow the
same procedures as all other applicants, even if they were a prior EOPS student. The
EOPS status from community college does not transfer over, as EOP and EOPS are two
different programs.
Guardian Scholars
The Guardian Scholars Program provides holistic support services for former and current foster youth, wards of
the court, unaccompanied homeless youth, and youth under legal guardianship. The program
assists students in navigating the San José State University (SJSU) system through
access to key campus, community, and financial resources, such as: book vouchers,
locating year-round housing, and scholarships.
Spartan East Side Promise
The Spartan East Side Promise is a partnership created by San José State University (SJSU) and East Side Union High School District (ESUHSD).
Transfer Success Pathway
Transfer Success Pathway (TSP) is a program that began with the high school graduating class of 2023 and provides a dual admission opportunity for eligible first-time, first-year students enrolling in California Community Colleges who commit to transferring to a California State University (CSU) within three years. The program is designed to increase access to the CSU for students who have faced academic, financial, or personal hardships that previously prevented them from attending.