Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/freshman/have-applied/freshman-applicant/index.php
Title: First-Time, First-Year Applicant
Type: HTML

First-Time, First-Year Applicant
Thank you for submitting your application to SJSU! We encourage you to check your MySJSU account weekly for any deadlines, messages and/or documents required to complete your application to SJSU. A list of general deadlines is also available for quick review.
Steps to Admission
Our Steps to Admission provides an overview of the necessary steps to successfully complete the application process for SJSU.
Admission Statuses
You can view your current admission status on your MySJSU Student Center by scrolling to the bottom of the screen under Admissions and clicking on "View Status". You can reference our Admission Statuses page for detailed descriptions.
Residency Information
Your residency status is determined by the answers you provided on your Cal State Apply application. If you have any questions about how residency is determined, please review our Residency information.
Spartan Pathways
Spartan Pathways is a university commitment to provide an additional path to be considered for admission to SJSU for students not accommodated due to our status as an impacted campus. CSU-eligible applicants who did not meet the major-specific impaction threshold to the university are eligible to apply for the Spartan Pathways program. These individuals will receive information about participation in the message posted to MySJSU at the time of admission decisions.
Admission Appeals
San José State is impacted for all majors at the undergraduate level. This means that we do not have the enrollment capacity to accept all eligible applicants. If you were not offered admission, or if your application was withdrawn because you missed a deadline, it is unlikely that our decision will be reversed on appeal.
If you have a serious and compelling reason for reconsideration and you wish to submit an appeal, please follow the directions to submit an undergraduate admission appeal request.
Apply to a Later Term
If your appeal is not accepted or you decide to continue your education via the community college system or at another university, we hope that you will reapply to SJSU for the next available term. Please monitor the Cal State Apply website for current information and deadlines.