Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/freshman/have-applied/activate-mysjsu/index.php
Title: Activate MySJSU
Type: HTML

Activate MySJSU
Activate Your SJSUOne Account to Access Your MySJSU Account
Thank you for submitting an application to SJSU! SJSU uses MySJSU as the formal method
of communication during the admission and enrollment process. It is your responsibility
to check your MySJSU frequently.
Look for an Email with Your SJSU ID
About 10 business days after applying at calstate.edu/apply, you will receive an email
with your nine-digit SJSU ID included. This nine-digit number will be your primary
university identification throughout your career at SJSU. This email often gets sent
to spam filters, so be sure the spam filters on your email account are set to accept
email from @sjsu.edu. If 10 days have passed and you can not find your ID number in
your email or spam folder, you can use the SJSU ID Lookup Tool to find your SJSU ID number.
Set the Password to Access Your SJSUOne Account
Signing into your SJSUOne account will allow you to access your MySJSU student account
as well. You can learn about setting up your Password on the Password Help page.
Sign into one.sjsu.edu
(Using the SJSU ID and Password You Created and Search for 'MySJSU' in the Search Box)
Click on the task for MySJSU (be sure to click on the heart icon in the lower corner,
first, to save as a favorite). Make sure your personal information is current - your
email address is critical!
Check Your MySJSU Account Frequently
Verify and update your personal information under the 'Personal Information' section of your MySJSU Student Center. Make any changes to your mailing address, phone number and email. Email is especially important because alerts from SJSU are sent by email when new messages are posted to your MySJSU account. Check your MySJSU account at least once a week for important and timely notices, such as admission, fees, financial aid, enrollment appointment, test, and transcript information and deadlines.
Lost SJSUOne ID or Password?
Click on the 'Password Help' icon at one.sjsu.edu
Please note your password will expire every 180 days.