Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/freshman/want-to-apply/freshman-steps-to-admission/index.php
Title: First-Time, First-Year Steps to Admission
Type: HTML

First-Time, First-Year Steps to Admission
Meet All Deadlines
If you miss an SJSU deadline, we will withdraw your application for admission, and you will not be able to attend SJSU for the term in which you applied. If you have an extreme hardship or unusual circumstance that may cause you to miss one of our deadlines, contact admissions@sjsu.edu prior to the deadline date.
Preference for local applicants
San José State gives preference to local applicants. First-Time, First-Year applicants are considered local if they will graduate from a high school in Santa Clara County.
11 Steps to Admission
Your path to admission to San José State and becoming a Spartan involves 11 steps. These steps are designed to help you navigate through the process toward admission. We look forward to receiving your application.
Step 1 - Meet all of the Academic Requirements
First-Time, First-Year (Domestic)
You are an applicant that is applying to SJSU directly after completing high school.
First-Time, First-Year (International)
You are an applicant who plans to attend SJSU on a F-1 or J-1 visa.
Step 2 - Choose Your Major Carefully
SJSU determines eligibility based on the major and alternate major you select during the application process.
You cannot change your major during the admission process. Once you are admitted, your mandatory orientation, advising, and registration will all be based on the major for which you were admitted. After you are admitted, change of major is never guaranteed and is by petition only.
To explore all of SJSU's available majors and programs, please visit our catalog.
Step 3 - Apply to SJSU at Cal State Apply
You will receive an application confirmation number: this is your receipt. Keep this number in a safe place; it is your proof that you submitted the application by the deadline.
EOP (Educational Opportunity Program for First Generation College Students) is designed for undergraduate students who are considered California residents or AB 540 students with a history of low-income (as determined by the FAFSA or CA Dream Act Application) and from an educationally disadvantaged background. Your parents/guardians cannot have earned a bachelor’s degree in any country (siblings with a bachelor’s degree are acceptable). If you are interested and feel you meet this criteria, submit a completed EOP application via Cal State Apply (calstate.edu/apply).
Step 4 - Animation & Illustration applicants only
Applicants to the Animation & Illustration major will need to submit three short supplemental drawing exercises no later than one week after the Cal State Apply application deadline. Department/Faculty review of submissions could result in a GPA bump in the admission consideration process. The supplemental drawing exercises are a required part of the Cal State Apply application process for this major. If they are not submitted by the deadline, your application will be considered for your alternate major only.
Step 5 - Look for an email with your SJSU ID
About 7-10 business days after applying at Cal State Apply, you will receive an email with your nine-digit SJSU ID included. This nine-digit number will be your primary university identification throughout your career at SJSU. Make sure the spam filters on your email account are set to accept email from @sjsu.edu so you receive this email.Step 6 - Create your password for your SJSUOne/MySJSU account
Your SJSUOne ID and password will get you into your MySJSU account.
Step 7 - Sign in to SJSUOne to access your MySJSU student account on the Spartan Apps Portal
Click on the “sign in” link and enter your nine-digit SJSU ID and the password you created. Then, search for “MySJSU” in the search box. Make sure to mark MySJSU as a favorite and then click on the “MySJSU” tile to access your student center. Your MySJSU account is the primary source of information about your application. Make sure your personal information is current—your email address is critical!Step 8 - Check your MySJSU account weekly
Check your MySJSU account at least once a week for important and timely notices, such as admission, fees, financial aid, enrollment appointment, test, and transcript information and deadlines.
Step 9 - No longer required -SAT/ACT Scores
The California State University (CSU) has eliminated the use of SAT and ACT scores in undergraduate admission consideration. SJSU is test free for admission!
We encourage you to submit your official SAT and/or ACT scores, as this is one of several measures to assess math and English placement for admitted first-year students.
Step 10 - Submit Transcripts when requested on your MySJSU To Do List
Official transcripts are required and must be sent to Undergraduate Admissions. If your university offers official electronic transcripts, we prefer this method of delivery. If your university requires an email address to send an official, electronic transcript, the recipient address is: etranscript@sjsu.edu
Transcripts sent by mail should be sent to:
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
San Jose State University
One Washington Square
San Jose, CA 95192-0016
All mailed transcripts must be sealed and unopened to be accepted as official documents.
*Your graduation date must be included in your final high school transcripts.
Re-applying to SJSU
Official transcripts are held for one year only. You can check your To Do List at
MySJSU to confirm any outstanding documents needed after you apply.
Step 11 - Complete the required high school (A-G) courses with grades of “C-” or better (prior to high school graduation date)
All required high school courses must be completed by the end of the spring semester prior to fall admission. A list of approved courses can be found at University of California A - G Guide.
If admitted, you will also need to complete the Steps to Enrollment, which include submitting final high school transcripts, attending orientation, and registering for classes.