Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/freshman/been-admitted/freshman-steps-to-enrollment/index.php
Title: First-Time, First-Year Steps to Enrollment
Type: HTML

First-Time, First-Year Steps to Enrollment
Meet All Deadlines
If you miss an SJSU deadline, we will withdraw your application for admission, and you will not be able to attend SJSU for the term you originally intended. If you have an extreme hardship or unusual circumstance that may cause you to miss one of our deadlines, contact admissions@sjsu.edu immediately after reviewing the undergraduate admissions appeals process.
Steps to Enrollment
Before starting the Steps to Enrollment process, make sure you have activated your MySJSU account. SJSU communicates by posting items to your “To Do List” and sending messages to your MySJSU account.
Step 1 - Submit Your Intent to Enroll
If admitted, you must complete the Next Steps Intent to Enroll process by the date posted on your MySJSU “To Do List”. The Next Steps Intent to Enroll process includes accepting SJSU’s offer of admission, signing up for placement exams, signing up for Orientation, and paying the nonrefundable enrollment deposit. All steps must be completed to maintain admission at SJSU.
Step 2 - Sign up for Orientation
Attending orientation at SJSU is mandatory. During the Next Steps Intent to Enroll process, you will select an orientation date.
Step 3 - Pay Your Enrollment Deposit
In order to complete the Next Steps Intent to Enroll process, you will be prompted to pay your enrollment deposit via our Cashnet website (link provided in your Next Steps portal). Your nonrefundable enrollment deposit of $250 includes your orientation payment and a deposit toward a portion of your tuition and fees.
Step 4 - Apply for Campus Housing
**CURRENTLY SUSPENDED**
The live on campus requirements for FTFY students is currently suspended. Students
do not need to submit an exemption form at this time. The priority Housing application deadline is May 1 for the Fall term.
You will be required to live in campus Housing for your first year if you are an admitted first-time, first-year who graduated from a high school located in a city outside a 30-mile radius of SJSU.
Step 5 - Determine First Year Writing and Math Course Placement
Information on your first year writing and math course placement can be found on our Supported Instruction site.
Step 6 - Attend Mandatory Orientation
Orientation is a mandatory two-day program that will acquaint you with the campus, college, and major department.
Step 7 - Submit Final Transcripts (with Graduation Date) and Documents
We review your final transcript to verify that you completed all required courses for admission. This includes passing required courses with a "C-" or better. Final transcripts must include your graduation date and must be submitted by the date listed on your MySJSU “To Do List”. If you have AP, IB or CLEP exam results, please have official test results sent to SJSU. If you have any college coursework please submit official documents.
Step 8 - Pay Tuition and Fees
Fees are due after registering for your classes. Check your MySJSU account under "Finances" to see your payment due date.
Step 9 - Participate in Early Start Program (if required)
Learn more about the Early Start Program.
Step 10 - Submit Proof of Immunization
As a new student, you will need to provide proof of specific immunizations prior to the first day of classes. Please review the immunizations that need to be submitted.