Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni/get-involved/chapters-and-networks/black-alumni-network-landing.php
Title: Black Alumni Network
Type: HTML

Black Alumni Network
About Us
The Black Alumni Network (BAN) was created to foster a community of SJSU alumnithrough networking, community events, mentorship and. Our goal is to provide supportAlumni associations can increase alumni participation in university activities,fundraising, and volunteering. Join BAN today to continue the legacy of engaging relationship and involvement withthe Black SJSU community.
Mission Statement
The purpose of this network shall be to join San José State University alumnitogether in organized efforts to benefit the members of the network, current students,and the San José State University, in accordance with the provisions stated in theAlumni Association Networks policy.
Get Involved
If you are looking to join the Black Alumni Network, please complete the Black Alumni Network membership form. If you are looking to contact the Black Alumni Network, please email blackalumninetwork@sjsu.edu
Carol Dixon
Co-Chair
In March 2025, SJSU Black Alumni Network engaged with the BLOC for SJSU’s Black Alumni new monthly, “SJSU Black Alumni Network at the BLOC”, engaging with undergraduate students at San Jose State University providing networking opportunities, Linkeldn tips, career advice, and more. Gratitude to MyShaundriss for opening up the space for us to support her work and the needs of the students. Thank you to SJSU Black Alumni, Carol R. Dixon, Co-Chair of SJSU Black Alumni Network and class of 1981, Dr. Kevina Brown, EdD, Class of 1994, Coleetta McElroy, MPA, class of 1997, Babatunde Onadele Jr, Class of 2013 and Jeremiah Lineberger, M.S. ‘25, Class of 2023 for participating in yesterday’s event with the BLOC! Join the Black Alumni Network if you are currently an alumni and when you graduate. Stay tuned for a reel! Contact us at blackalumninetwork@sjsu.edu
San Jose State Black Alumni Network members and Co-Chair attended San Jose State University First Distinguished Alumni Awards Ceremony, where SJSU celebrated the achievements of SJSU Alumni who are making an impact in the world. This year’s honorees were shining examples of professional success, community service, and champions of higher education.
We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. At San José State University, all students, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, or background, are welcome to engage with the Black Alumni network, learn with and from others, and be in community. We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. Through our programs and events, we foster understanding of Black experiences and create opportunities for all Spartans to learn, belong, and succeed together.