Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni/resources/career.php
Title: Career Resources
Type: HTML

Career Resources
SJSU² Mentoring & Meetups
A new alumni to alumni connection feature is available on the SJSU² Mentoring & Meetups platform. This exclusive online network is your first stop for finding professional connections with fellow Spartans. SJSU graduates from across the country want to help you in your journey to career success. The mentors on this platform can help you take the first steps towards your career goals. Join the community today!
Alumni Learning Consortium
The SJSU Alumni Association has partnered with the Alumni Learning Consortium (ALC) to bring additional online learning resources to the San José State community. These virtual events feature top-notch programming from best-selling authors and career experts for alumni in all life stages. Participants can watch and interact with the live event or view recordings on demand. There is an extensive collection of events already available.
Spartan Success Series
Take advantage of the Spartan Success Series, a program series featuring an array of career development events providing opportunities to network with subject matter experts. Through offering a combination of virtual workshops, panels, and review sessions, alumni learn to sharpen their skills, build their network, explore career pathways, and acquire a competitive edge to carry into the workforce. This event series is open to alumni and current students. Learn more and grow your network!
Visit our official LinkedIn page to connect with and expand your professional network with fellow SJSU alumni, students, and other SJSU constituents. The page also includes news and highlights from campus.
Additional Resources
SJSU Career Center
Alumni can access limited services for an additional fee. Please visit the Career Center website for more information.
Alumni Association Annual Members who activated the Career Center member benefit before August 1, 2020 will have access to the basic membership level until their Alumni Association membership expires.
Alumni Association Life Members who activated the Career Center member benefit before August 1, 2020, will retain access to the basic membership level for a lifetime.
Community Career Resources
CareerOneStop is your pathway to career success. Find tools to help job seekers, students, business, and career professionals. Sponsored by the U.S. Department of Labor.
NOVA is a nonprofit, federally funded employment and training agency that provides customer-focused workforce development services. NOVA's purpose is to support workforce mobility by easing workers' transitions from opportunity to opportunity throughout their career cycles.
Work2Future is strategically positioned within the City of San Jose Office of Economic Development and addresses the workforce and economic development needs of our local area. We work with businesses, residents, government, educational and community-based organizations to maximize local and regional employment opportunities.