Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni/get-involved/chapters-and-networks/latino-alumni-network.php
Title: Latino Alumni Network
Type: HTML

Latino Alumni Network
About Us
The SJSU Latino Alumni Network (LAN) strives to create a network of Latinos who are committed to fostering relationships, creating opportunities, and providing support for the greater SJSU community of Latino students and alumni.
Our goal is to build a community to support the continuing education and professional growth of the SJSU Latinos in the San Francisco Bay Area. Stay engaged with the university and each other through cultural, educational, social, and professional development activities by sharing your resources and expertise with our greater community. Together we can strengthen the Latino community in the San Francisco Bay Area!
Whether you want to meet new people, reconnect with fellow alums, or explore local activities, LAN has something for you. We encourage you to join us today to engage with your Spartan Latino community.
Mission
Empower the SJSU Latino Alumni and student comunidad by providing scholarships, building community, and promoting personal and professional growth.
Support the Latino Alumni Network!
Join our community
Instagram: @sjsu_latinoalumninetwork
Facebook: sjsu.latinoalumninetwork
LinkedIn: SJSU LAN Alumni Network
Linktree: SJSU LAN
Contact us
If you have any questions or need more information about our network, email us at SJSU.LatinoAlumniNetwork@gmail.com
Board Members
Advisory Board
Nondiscrimination statement
We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. At San José State University, all students, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, or background, are welcome to engage with the Latino Alumni network, learn with and from others, and be in community. We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. Through our programs and events, we foster understanding of Latino experiences and create opportunities for all Spartans to learn, belong, and succeed together.