Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni/join/member-benefits.php
Title: Member Benefits
Type: HTML

Member Benefits
Alumni membership has direct and positive effects on San José State. However, there's also significant advantages in it for you! Becoming a member is affordable, valuable, beneficial, and the best way to show your Spartan Pride!
What your benefits include
Career Resources
Alumni Career Resources
We care about your success and are here to support you! After all, we are all Spartans always, in all ways. Visit the Career Resources page for more information about program offerings.
Alumni Association LinkedIn
Visit our official LinkedIn page to connect with and expand your professional and personal network in this forum with fellow SJSU alumni, students, and other SJSU constituents.
Money Saving Discounts
PerksConnect
Members receive free access to PerksConnect discount program. You will start saving instantly on food, activities, ticketed events, and other amenities through PerksConnect partners across the nation.
Spartan Bookstore
Get 10% off all SJSU and Spartan branded clothing and gifts in-store and online! A coupon code will be listed on your membership card. Use this code during your online checkout to obtain your discount. When inside the store, please present your card to the cashier.
Timpany Center
The Timpany Center is a hidden gem, boasting a 100,000 gallon warm-water pool, spa, gymnasium, weight room, and classroom. Conveniently located next to the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (near Highways 280 and 17) in San Jose. Receive a discounted rate on Pool and Land Membership options.
Spartan Recreation and Aquatic Center (SRAC)
Come back to campus to pursue your fitness goals, be active with friends, or discover
a new lifelong hobby. The facility includes five workout areas with 20,000 sq ft of
cardio & strength equipment, multiple full-court gyms, rock wall, 50-meter lap pool,
and a recreation pool with sundeck and BBQ area. Effective January 2, 2025, SRAC Memberships
will only be available to SJSU Alumni.
SJSU Alumni Association members will be required to present their SJSU Alumni Association
membership card showing their graduation year at the time of purchasing their SRAC
membership.
Rental Car Agencies
Members receive discounts between 15 - 25% at Alamo, Auto Europe, Avis, Budget, Hertz, National, and Payless, along with special weekly rental discounts and free weekend days! Members receive a card in their membership packet with discount codes for auto rentals.
Choice Hotels
As a member, you may receive up to 20% off your next stay by using the SJSU Alumni discount code. Choice hotels include Comfort Inn, Comfort Suites, Quality, Sleep Inn, Clarion, MainStay Suites, Econo Lodge, and many more!
Cheap Airport Parking
Use code "SJSU" to receive discounted airport parking rates through Cheap Airport Parking!
Travel Insurance
You plan your trips carefully. But sometimes things happen that are simply out of
your control — like injury, illness, trip delays and lost
baggage. These unexpected problems can cost you more than just your vacation. They
can also lead to significant costs, worry and hassles.
Dell
Discounts range upwards of 30% off regular Dell.com pricing. Plus get early access to holiday doorbusters and seasonal sales. To shop your Dell U discounts, please visit the Dell Student Discounts page.
Insurance Benefit Programs
Medical, Dental, Life and Other Insurance Programs
You have the advantage of exclusive alumni-only discounts and/or benefits through the SJSU Alumni Insurance Benefits Program, administered by AMBA. To learn more and enroll, visit our Health Insurance website or call 1 (888) 560-ALUM (2586). AMBA is committed to “Serving You throughout Your Life.
Group Long Term Care Benefit program
Long-Term Care Resources will provide you (and your spouse/partner, adult children and your parents and parents-in-law) with access to a one-of-a kind solution to help protect your retirement funds and assets, as well as manage your care. With LTCRplus, you can get assistance with care you may need now or in the future. Plus, it will help you save money and time, while protecting your family.
Home and Auto Insurance
Members get special rates and discounts available from Liberty Mutual on auto and home insurance.
Medical Air Services insurance
Members get special rates and discounts available from Medical Air Services Association for lifesaving emergency transportation services.
Events
Activities and Workshops
Members enjoy a variety of networking opportunities, social activities, and skill-building workshops! Whether it's sporting events, cooking classes, Homecoming, or professional development workshops, there is something for everyone. Check out our calendar for the latest events!
News
Washington Square: The Magazine
Life Members receive a printed copy of Washington Square, SJSU’s university and alumni magazine, sharing compelling and inspiring stories that embody the Spartan pride and resilience we all treasure.
Social Media
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Instagram! Engage with fellow Spartans, get event details, and keep up with SJSU news. Plus, view pictures, post announcements, and enter alumni contests!
Ready to join?
Membership in the SJSU Alumni Association is open to all graduates, students, fans and friends and is the most recognizable way of expressing your connection to San José State.