Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni/get-involved/chapters-and-networks/asian-american-studies-alumni-network.php
Title: Asian American Studies Alumni Network
Type: HTML

Asian American Studies Alumni Network
About Us
Asian American Studies (AAS) was one of the Ethnic Studies fields born in 1968 from the Civil Rights Movement, Third World Liberation Front, the anti-War movement, and in solidarity with multiple oppressed communities. The Asian American Studies Movement at San Jose State was founded in Fall 1970 on the heels of these cross-racial movements through faculty, staff, student, and community agitation and mobilization. This program represented the culmination of the concerted efforts of many Asian American students at what was then San Jose State College. If there is any one creed agreed on by all those participating in the program, it is that the program continued to welcome the support of and active participation of any and all members of the college community.
Mission Statement
The AAS Alumni (+Friends) Network (AASAN) seeks to promote and support the educational, professional, and community-based development of Asian American Studies students at San Jose State University. The AASAN is a seamless complement to the alumni association's aims of increasing affinity, expanding membership, and fostering pride and loyalty at SJSU. Many of our founding members hold multiple degrees from SJSU and as a group, we exhibit and exude the pride in the institution that the alumni association desires. While our primary goal is to connect and collaborate with AAS alumni to build community, mentorship, and belonging, a secondary goal is to promote the excellence of SJSU as an institution of transformation and personal growth.
Nondiscrimination statement
We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. At San José State University, all students, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, or background, are welcome to engage with the Asian American Studies network, learn with and from others, and be in community. We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. Through our programs and events, we foster understanding of Asian experiences and create opportunities for all Spartans to learn, belong, and succeed together.