Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/alumni/get-involved/chapters-and-networks/filipino-alumni-network.php
Title: Filipino Alumni Network
Type: HTML

Filipino Alumni Network
About Us
Founded in 2021, The Filipino Alumni Network (FAN) fosters community, cultural identity, and professional development for San Jose State University Alumni through networking events, mentorship, and professional opportunities. Our goal is to provide a space of belonging for the SJSU Filipino American community and further their academic excellence and professional careers.
Mission
Our goal is to cultivate a sense of community beyond the SJSU experience each socially, culturally, and professionally for Filipinx alumni and students alike.
Filipino American History Mural
The mission of this Coalition is to unveil a new mural that will work to correct the painful omission of our history by finally commemorating the contributions and leadership Filipino Farmworkers made during the United Farm Workers Movement. With this new art installation, SJSU’s community and visitors will be taught the valuable contributions Filipinos have made throughout American history.
FAN Alumni Legacy Gala
FAN SJSU's Legacy Gala is anticipated for Fall 2025. More updates coming soon -- stay tuned!
Board of Directors
Stay Connected
Instagram: @fansjsu
LinkedIn: Filipino Alumni Network
Facebook: SJSU Filipino Alumni Network
Visit our linktree: https://linktr.ee/fansjsu
Email: fansjsu@gmail.com
Nondiscrimination statement
We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. At San José State University, all students, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, or background, are welcome to engage with the Filipino Alumni network, learn with and from others, and be in community. We serve all students equitably and inclusively and foster an environment rooted in respect, collaboration, and trust. Through our programs and events, we foster understanding of Filipino experiences and create opportunities for all Spartans to learn, belong, and succeed together.