Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/campus-life/health-and-wellness.php
Title: Health and Wellness
Type: HTML

Health and Wellness
We're Here for You
Here at SJSU we are committed to your success. We realize that to be successful it takes more than just studying – your health, wellness and safety are critical to your academic success. This is why SJSU provides services to address your health, wellness and safety. Please do not hesitate to reach out to any of the services below. We are here to be your partners in your success.
Health and Wellness Services
The Student Wellness Center is home to your health, counseling, and well-being needs at SJSU. Visit your doctor, talk to your counselor, relax in the Wellness Lounge, and more.
Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest COVID-19 information, vaccination and mask updates and to report a case.
The Accessible Education Center (AEC) provides accommodations, services, and auxiliary aids in support of the educational development and success of students with disabilities in a student-centered and professional environment.
SJSU Cares provides resources and services for SJSU students facing many kinds of financial crisis. If you’re having trouble paying for food, housing or other bills, due to an unforeseen crisis come to us to get the help you need.
Title IX and Gender Equity Center
Have you experienced sexual harassment/assualt, sex discrimination, or gender inequity? SJSU's is committed to protecting all people regardless of their gender or gender identity from sex discrimination, which includes sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, dating/domestic violence, stalking, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions.
Are you experiencing an immediate or ongoing threat to your safety? UPD is committed to creating a professional, progressive and superior police force, as well as providing emergency, transportation and educational services in alliance with the campus community.
Whether you’re a beginner or a fitness guru, wanting to learn new skills or push your boundaries, we’ve got you covered with an exciting selection of activities in our state-of-the-art facilities.
Find your place among 30,000+ Spartans with over 350+ recognized student organizations at SJSU ranging from cultural groups and Greek life to hundreds of special interest groups.