Source: https://sjsu.edu/campus-safety
Title: Campus Safety
Type: HTML

Campus Safety
A Safe and Thriving Community
San José State University is committed to fostering a safe, secure and welcoming environment for all students, faculty, staff and visitors. Get all the latest information here on how we keep SJSU safe for all.
Timely Safety Information
Emergency Alerts and Safety Updates
Get the most current information on matters that affect health, life and safety at any SJSU site or the area around campus.
Title IX and Equal Opportunity
Report a harassment incident based on protected class discrimination and get support and access to resources.
Find out how SJSU will contact you in case of emergencies, how to update your contact information and where to get news updates.
University Policies
Freedom of Expression and Time, Place and Manner Policy
As of August 16, 2024, the California State University's Interim Free Expression and Time, Place and Manner policy is in effect for students and non-represented employees.
The Office of Student Conduct and Ethical Development uses a fair, consistent process to investigate violations of the student conduct code or academic integrity policies at SJSU.
Any responsible employee who receives information about an incident(s) that may constitute a violation of the Nondiscrimination Policy is required to share all known information about the incident(s) with the Office for Title IX and Equal Opportunity. Responsible employees are required to report all known information about the incident(s) – including the names of the Parties involved – even when the person has requested anonymity.
Holistic Student Support
Spartans take care of Spartans. At SJSU, help is available to students in need of basic needs assistance from food, housing, finances, medical care and more.
The AEC provides comprehensive services in support of the educational development and success of students with disabilities.
Well-being @ SJSU is a hub of resources and experiences to inspire and empower you to grow your well-being. Join us each month as we spotlight a new dimension of wellness to support your journey for a healthier you.