Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/campus-life
Title: Campus Life
Type: HTML

Campus Life
Get Involved
Associated Students
Home of Student Government, Cesar Chavez Community Action Center, Child Development
Center, General Services Center, Print and Technology Center and Transportation Solutions,
Associated Students (A/S) is here to enhance your experience!
Student Organizations
Find your place among 30,000 Spartans with nearly 450 recognized student organizations
at San Jose State ranging from cultural groups and Greek life to hundreds of special
interest groups.
Fraternities and Sororities
Since 1898, fraternities and sororities at SJSU have offered a fun atmosphere filled
with friendship, community service, and personal development that makes college life
a memorable experience.
Black Leadership and Opportunity Center
The Black Leadership and Opportunity Center is the hub for Black student life at SJSU.
We provide cultural programming, professional development and academic initiatives
that promote community building and overall student success.
Cesar Chavez Community Action Center
Part of Associated Students, CCCAC connects SJSU students with community service opportunities
that deepen their educational experience, while promoting lifelong commitment to civic
activism and social justice, which are at the heart of the Cesar Chavez legacy.
Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center
The Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center is a responsive and culturally relevant
academic success center devoted to providing inclusive and welcoming community spaces.
Center for Community Learning and Leadership
CCLL promotes service-learning and community engagement, collaborating with students,
faculty members and community organizations for academic advancement and serving the
common good.
Gender Equity Center
The Gender Equity Center works to empower students and educate the campus on gender-based
issues facing society.
Veterans Resource Center
The Veterans Resource Center proudly supports all veterans, reservists, active duty
personnel and veteran dependents.
MOSAIC Cross Cultural Center
MOSAIC Cross Cultural Center provides support services and advocacy for students from
historically underrepresented identity groups, along with campus programming and events.
PRIDE Center
The PRIDE Center works to improve the campus climate for LGBTIQQA students, advocating
for the respect and safety of all members of the SJSU community.
Arts and Entertainment
Provident Credit Union Event Center
The Provident Credit Union Event Center at SJSU is the premier mid-sized venue in
Northern California. It has hosted national entertainment acts such as Shawn Mendes,
Fifth Harmony, Brand New and Prince Royce. It's also the home of Spartan men's and
women's basketball.
Hammer Theatre Center
In the heart of downtown San Jose, Hammer Theatre serves San Jose’s community and
the university through high-quality programming expressive of the unique characteristics
and diverse cultures that comprise Silicon Valley.
Music
From the famous Choraliers to the swinging Jazz Orchestra, the Music School populates
over 20 ensembles and over 120 performances each year.
Dance
Taught by some of the best teacher-artists in the world, come experience the beautiful
performances of SJSU's dance students!
Film and Theatre
Film and Theatre creates short and feature films through Spartan Film Studios, a full
season of stage productions, and other faculty, staff and student production projects.
The department also has a full-time radio station, KSJS 90.5.
Center for Literary Arts
The CLA provides readings, lectures, conversations and seminars that allow the San
Jose community to interact with writers of contemporary literature.
Natalie and James Thompson Art Gallery
The professionally curated exhibitions in the Natalie and James Thompson Gallery create
a direct link to academic curricula and explore varied issues of contemporary and
traditional arts.
Campus Recreation
Campus Recreation offers a variety of athletic and recreation opportunities to the
campus community, from intramural and club sports to the Bowling Center, fitness activities
and outdoor adventures.
Silicon Valley
San Jose State's location provides opportunities to enjoy the best of Northern California.
Caring for the Spartan Family
Student Jobs and Employment