Source: https://sjsu.edu/campus-safety/updates/3-13-26-update.php
Title: Campus Safety Update: March 13
Type: HTML

Campus Safety Update: March 13
A campus safety update and frequently asked questions. Current as of March 24, 2026.
Concerning an incident on Wednesday, March 4, 2026 on the Main Campus.
President's Message to Campus on March 6
All campuses and regularly-scheduled classes, work shift, events and campus operations will proceed and take place as scheduled. Campus is fully open. A risk assessment was undertaken by University Police Department and UPD has determined the risk of actual violence is low.
What happened on campus on March 4, 2026?
On March 4, hateful graffiti and a violent threat of a non-specific nature were discovered in an academic building on campus. The non-specific threat mentioned March 11. This graffiti was reported to university officials and University Police Department (UPD). UPD activated the Emergency Operations Center and notified law enforcement mutual aid partners. UPD determined the risk of follow-through on the threat was “low” and that there was no credible threat to the campus community and UPD actively investigated the incident. The investigation continues, and as of March 5, 2026 there has been no additional evidence of a credible threat and the campus remains open.
Was additional graffiti found?
Additional graffiti was found and removed from a campus bathroom on March 11 and 24 that made reference to the Jewish community.
The University Police Department investigation is ongoing, and no evidence has been identified to indicate a credible threat.
What does “low-level” risk mean?
The term “low-level” is a law enforcement protocol used in professional threat assessments. It does not reflect how seriously university leadership or UPD takes the incident.
A “low-level” assessment means that, after reviewing available intelligence — including the content, location, timing, of the incident and any possible related social media activity — experts made a determination that there is no imminent or credible plan for violence.
This assessment does not minimize the hateful nature or seriousness of the act or its impact on our campus community.
Has a suspect been identified?
No. UPD does not have a suspect at this time. The investigation is ongoing, and community members are strongly encouraged to share any information that could assist.
To Report Information:
- Use the Spartan Safe app
- Call UPD dispatch at (408) 924-2222. All students and employees (faculty, staff, auxiliary) are highly-encouraged to save this number in their contacts.
What safety measures are in place right now?
While the investigation is ongoing and the risk assessment completed, neither additional evidence nor a suspect hasn't been found, out of an abundance of caution, UPD continues 24-hour foot patrols on and around campus, including along the Paseo de San Antonio to Spartan Village on the Paseo and will continue the same level of vigilance that has been demonstrated throughout the year.
Additionally:
- Camera coverage across campus is expanded, including the use of portable camera towers at key locations.
- Lighting upgrades and new cameras across campus installed over summer 2025 are fully operational, enhancing safety during evening hours.
- UPD notifies local and federal law enforcement partners when situations warrant additional collaboration and support.
- Our campus Emergency Operations Center (EOC) was activated at a low-level for heightened campus monitoring.
Can the university share more details about the investigation?
UPD is unable to provide specific details of the investigation in order to protect the investigative process, increasing the opportunity to identify a suspect and hold them accountable.
Is the campus open? Can I go to class and work?
Yes, the campus remains open and fully operational.
Faculty and staff have been encouraged by academic affairs to remain flexible and understanding as individuals may have different levels of comfort. Students who have concerns should communicate directly with their professors and departments.
All classes and work shifts will continue as scheduled, on the Main Campus and all other off-campus SJSU properties: South Campus, Hammer Theater Center, Spartan Village on the Paseo, Associated Students Childhood Development Center, International House, Art Foundry, Timpany Center, Aviation at Reid Hillview Airport and Moss Landing Marine Laboratories.