Source: https://sjsu.edu/campus-safety/updates/index.php
Title: Campus Safety Updates
Type: HTML

Campus Safety Updates
All campus facilities are open and operational.
Classes and events on main campus, south campus, Art Foundry, Timpany Center, Reid Hillview Airport and Moss Landing Marine Laboratories may continue as scheduled. Regular hours for all facilities are in effect and no operations are disrupted.
| Emergency Alert(s) | ||
| Archived Alerts |
|
Emergency Alert(s)
There are no active emergency safety alerts at this time.
All campus properties (main campus, south campus, Moss Landing Marine Laboratories) and affiliated properties (Art Foundry, Timpany Center, Aviation Department at Reid Hillview Airport) are open and operational.
Emergencies are situations that involve active and/or confirmed threats to life, health, safety, property AND disrupt regular campus operations (classes, .
Emergency alerts are typically issued University Police Department via email, text, automated phone call, and/or Spartan Safe mobile app push notification.
Safety Updates
All campus properties (main campus, south campus, Moss Landing Marine Laboratories) and affiliated properties (Art Foundry, Timpany Center, Aviation Department at Reid Hillview Airport) are open and operational.
All classes and scheduled campus events may continue as scheduled at the discretion of individual departments, faculty and event hosts.
Non-emergency advisories, notices, communications or updates may be issued as needed given assessments of situations, events, potential threats and other issues on or off campus and/or affecting any member of our university community. These updates may come from the Office of the President, Office of the Provost and senior vice president for Academic Affairs, Office of the vice president for Student Affairs, and/or University Police Department.
Notification Methods
Alerts and Notifications from SJSU
Make sure your contact information is up to date to receive text message alerts and emails from AlertSJSU.
SJSU's Safety App
Learn how to use and get SJSU's safety mobile app Spartan Safe. Keep notifications on for the app.
Immigration Enforcement Concerns
Visit sjsu.edu/immigration for information on how SJSU handles and responds to federal enforcement activity in compliance with the California SAFE Act (SB98) and other applicable laws. This Immigration website is a resource for our entire community and provides information on how to get legal and holistic supportive services for all students and employees, irrespective of documentation status.
Notifications about any confirmed enforcement activity on any SJSU property will be delivered via the Spartan Safe mobile safety app push notifications in line with the California SAFE Act.
Review guidance and resources for faculty and staff from the California State University Chancellor's Office on immigration enforcement concerns and the latest guidance on international travel for students, faculty and staff.
Weather Guidance
View the current weather-related safety alerts. Get comprehensive weather safety tips and updates on any changes or impacts to campus operations, hours or classes.
Archived Alerts
Past emergency alerts issued by University Police Department on matters impacting life, health safety, property and regular campus operations.
At this time there are no archived emergency alerts.
Archived Updates
Past updates on urgent matters concerning campus safety but that are not necessarily emergency events (active threats to life, health, safety, property). These messages are separate from Jeanne Clery Act-required notifications issued by the university to active students and employees through AlertSJSU emails, text, or push notifications through the Spartan Safe app.
| Date | Update |
|---|---|
| March 6, 2026 |
Community Support Following Antisemitic Graffiti
Issued to all active students and employees from the President. |
| November, 19, 2025 |
Campus Climate Parent Update [pdf]
Issued to parents from the vice president for Student Affairs to students and their families. |
| Nov. 18, 2025 |
Campus Climate Update: Graffiti and Threats Found in Campus Building; UPD Investigating
Issued from the Provost and senior vice president for Academic Affairs to all students, faculty, staff and auxliary employees. |
| Nov. 18, 2025 |
Campus Climate Update Follow Up
Issued from the Provost and senior vice president for Academic Affairs to all students, faculty, staff and auxliary employees. |