Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/cds/resources/aid-scholarships.php
Title: Financial Aid and Scholarships
Type: HTML

Financial Aid and Scholarships
SJSU Financial Aid and Scholarship
San José State University's Financial Aid and Scholarship Office provides assistance to students in securing federal, state, and university financial aid. Visit their Types of Aid webpage for more information.
College of Graduate Studies
San José State University's College of Graduate Studies provides multiple options for graduate students to support their education. Visit their Funding Opportunities webpage for more information.
Lurie College of Education Financial Aid
Each spring semester, the Lurie College of Education awards scholarships to many of its undergraduate, graduate, credential, and doctoral students based on academics, community involvement and their dedication to education - visit the Lurie College of Education Student Financial Aid Opportunities webpage for more information about scholarships, research grants, and student conference travel grants.
CDS Financial Aid
The Department hires instructional support assistants (ISAs), teaching assistants (TAs), and research assistants (RAs), announcing these positions as they become available.
Professional Organizations
Santa Clara County Speech-Language Hearing Association (SCCSHA)
Visit the SCCSHA website for more information about their scholarship for graduate students.
California Speech Language Hearing Association
Visit the CSHA Foundation Scholarship Program website for more information.
Council on Academic Programs in Communication Sciences and Disorders (CAPCSD)
Visit the CAPCSD Student Scholarships website for more information.
American Speech Language Hearing Foundation
The ASH Foundation provides many scholarships and research grants to support students pursuing graduate study in communication disorders and sciences. Visit the American Speech Language Hearing Foundation Grants and Scholarships for more information.
National Student Speech Language Hearing Association (NSSHLA)
NSSHLA offers national scholarship for both undergraduate and graduate students who are CURRENT NSSHLA members. Take a look at the NSSHLA website for eligibility criteria and scholarship information.