Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/cds/clinics/stuttering-cluttering-fluency.php
Title: Stuttering, Cluttering and Fluency
Type: HTML

Stuttering, Cluttering and Fluency
Individual/Group Therapy
We provide therapy services and support for young children, school-age children, teens, and adults who stutter/clutter. Therapy is client-centered and collaborative in nature, targeting effective speech and communication, along with the social, emotional, educational, and/or occupational impacts of stuttering/cluttering. We utilize a variety of evidence-based contemporary therapy approaches to meet the individual needs of the client and family. Services may include individual and/or group therapy.
Camp STARS: Stutter, Talk & Reach for the Stars
Our annual summer camp for school-age children who stutter and their families aims to introduce the strengths-based, affirmative approach to stuttering in clinical practice and engage children and families in dialogues about stuttering, communication and beyond. The camp focuses on effective communication and connection with peers, in an inclusive and supportive environment for children to speak and stutter freely and openly while exploring their best potential.
The program is an intensive week-long day camp. Campers will participate in individual and group activities about stuttering and communication, expanding their understanding, developing tools and building confidence for self-efficacy and self-advocacy. The camp also provides opportunities for family members to connect, discuss and learn about stuttering as a community. This is a unique opportunity for children who stutter and their families to learn new skills, take new perspectives, and build new friendships.
Currently accepting applications: 2026 SJSU Camp STARS (p.1 English, p.2 Spanish)
Sign up HERE to receive updates about future camps.
Clinical research opportunities:
To better serve our diverse communities, we welcome young children (age 3-6) who are emerging bilinguals seeking stuttering evaluation and/or therapy to participate in our Bilingual Communication Assessment project. The project aims to better understand the characteristics of speech fluency in emerging bilinguals and clinically relevant considerations for serving young children who stutter and their families. We are currently interested in Mandarin-English speaking children and families. See Bilingual Stuttering Project Recruitment Flyer for details.
Learn more about our work:
Mahendra, Tsai, Brym, Park, & Dessenberger (2020). Intergenerational music and movement programming: A pilot study with persons with aphasia and children with stuttering. Virtual Presentation, Aphasia Access, 24-hour Teach-In. (Video)
Tsai, P.-T. (2021). “Learning from Stuttering: A Path from Disorder to Diversity.” Invited presentation at University Scholar Series 44, San Jose State University, San Jose, CA. (Video)
Lu, P. (2023). "Let's Rethink Bilingual Stuttering." Finals 2023 Grad Slam, San Jose State University, San Jose, CA. (Video)
Resources:
American Speech-Language and Hearing Association
Information about stuttering, cluttering and fluency disorders
Stuttering Foundation
Resources for people who stutter, their families, professionals and the public
National Stuttering Association
Resources and support groups for people who stutter
Friends: The National Association of Young People Who Stutter
Support for children who stutter and their families
The Stuttering Association for the Young (SAY)
Support and advocacy for children who stutter