Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/cds/academics/index.php
Title: Academics
Type: HTML

Academics
Vision
The Department of Communicative Disorders and Sciences prepares innovative scholars via transformative education and high-impact, equity-minded research.
Mission
The mission of the Department of Communicative Disorders and Sciences is to prepare creative, evidence-informed, critical thinkers and change agents for a profession in speech-language pathology and related fields. This work prioritizes clinical education and research that reflect, elevate, and advocate for the interests and needs of our diverse communities. We do this with a culturally responsive and student-centered focus.
As one of the first Communicative Disorders and Sciences programs in California, the department has prepared students for careers in speech-language pathology, audiology, and related fields for over 50 years. The Department is distinguished for its commitment and legacy in affirming diversity and promoting equity in the professions, as well as for notable contributions to clinical research, leadership, and personnel preparation.
Speech-language pathologists are the highest qualified providers who screen, assess, treat, and prevent speech, language, cognitive-communicative and swallowing disorders across the lifespan. Audiologists screen, diagnose and treat hearing and balance problems or related concerns, across the lifespan.
Our BS in Communicative Disorders and Sciences degree program provides the basis for further graduate study, required for a career in speech-language pathology or audiology. Our MS in Speech Language Pathology program is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation of the American Speech-Language and Hearing Association and the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC).
Members of the SJSU community and the larger Bay area community receive speech, language, hearing and swallowing services at the Kay Armstead Center for Communication Disorders in Sweeney Hall.
Connect with Us
Email: communicative-disorders-sciences@sjsu.edu
Instagram: SJSU Speech Language Pathology | @sjsu.cds.speechpathology