Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/cds/resources/forms.php
Title: Forms
Type: HTML

Forms
Department Forms
Graduate Student Forms
Graduate students admitted to the MS program are asked to review these forms before the New Graduate Student Orientation.
Undergraduate Student Forms
CDS Seniors - How to apply for graduation online
Clinical Hours Forms
University Forms
Additional forms can be found on the websites of the Office of the Registrar website and the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluation (GAPE) website.
Undergraduate Students
Change of Major
Please meet with the Student Success Center if you have less than 60 units. Meet with Professor McCollum, the Undergraduate Advisor, to get the required forms if you have more than 60 units.
Graduate Students
Advancement to Candidacy
In the second Fall semester, graduate students in the MS degree program will need to submit a Petition for Advancement to Graduate Candidacy form [pdf]. This form must be signed by the CDS Program Director and submitted to GAPE by the appropriate deadline. Check the deadline for submitting the Request for Candidacy form. Any changes made in the program degree academic plan as listed on the Request for Candidacy form need to be requested using the course substitution form. This form must be signed by the CDS Program Director prior to submission to GAPE.
Application for Graduation
Eligible students can apply for graduation through self-service within their MySJSU account. Instructions to apply will be sent to your MySJSU message center.
Forms for Certification, Licensure, Credentials
ASHA Certification
To apply for certification in speech-language pathology, visit asha.org/Certification/SLPCertification
CA State Licensure
To apply for licensure through the California Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology and Hearing Aid Dispensers board, speechandhearing.ca.gov/applicants/slp
California Teaching Credential
To apply for a speech-language pathology services credential through the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing, visit the SJSU Lurie College of Education Credential Services webpage.