Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/chad/academics/minors.php
Title: Undergraduate Minor Programs
Type: HTML

Undergraduate Minor Programs
Minor, Child & Adolescent Development
The courses for the minor in Child & Adolescent Development offer a range of opportunities to examine the course of human development with special emphasis on the period from infancy through adolescence. This academic program is particularly appropriate for students planning to enter the fields of education, social welfare, nursing, child care, and other human services professions. This minor requires the completion of 15 units, which include 1 core course and 4 elective courses. For complete details about this minor, visit the SJSU Catalog website.
Minor, Atypical Child Studies
The courses for this minor provide a solid foundation in both normative and atypical early childhood development. The minor is particularly beneficial for students who plan to pursue careers in a number of branches of the social and life sciences, education, medicine and other human services professions focusing on atypical infants/children and their families. This minor requires the completion of 15 units, which include 3 core courses and 2 elective courses. For complete details about this minor, visit the SJSU Catalog website.
How To Declare Your Minor
For students with fewer than 90 units, please submit this online Change of Minor form. Anticipate an email confirmation within 2-5 business days regarding the status of the request.
For students with more than 90 units, please schedule an appointment to meet with a ChAD Program Coordinator who will review the request, plan a curriculum roadmap, and provide instructions for submitting a Change of Minor request.
More SJSU Lurie College of Education Helpful Undergraduate Resources
- Student Success Center - Utilize this space in Sweeney Hall 106 to meet with academic advisors, get writing support, attend workshops, and more.
- Connect with Lurie College - Connect with our social media profiles and visit our Lurie College blog to receive more news about academic and student life.