Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/cob/about/calendar/ignite-and-inspire-series/index.php
Title: Ignite & Inspire Speaker Series
Type: HTML

Ignite & Inspire Speaker Series
The Ignite & Inspire Speaker Series at the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business is a recurring event, held in partnership with the student organization LILAC (LCoB Interorganizational Leadership Advancement Committee).
This series aims to:
- Bring in experienced professionals and leaders from Silicon Valley and beyond to share their insights and knowledge with students and faculty.
- Address relevant topics related to business, leadership, career development, and navigating the professional world.
- Inspire and motivate students by providing them with practical advice and real-world perspectives.
- Offer opportunities for networking between students, professionals, and faculty.
April 21: "Rejection is Redirection"
Ever faced a moment where your path felt uncertain or your confidence took a hit? Whether you're navigating a big decision, entering a new environment, or stepping into a role you don’t feel ready for, this session is for you.
Speaker:
Lisa Etherington is the Vice President of Inventory Management at Old Navy, with over 25 years of experience at Gap Inc. A San José State University alumna in Social Sciences, Lisa has led across buying, merchandising, planning, allocation, and distribution, with a focus on launching new businesses and expanding into international markets, including store openings in Japan and China. Lisa has managed teams of up to 80 people, fostering collaboration, direct engagement, and continuous learning. She empowers her teams while maintaining a hands on approach to execution. With deep expertise in global retail, particularly in Asia, she is passionate about driving innovation and excellence in inventory management and supply chain operations.
Moderator:
Rangapriya (Priya) Kannan is the dean of the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business and a professor in the School of Global Innovation & Leadership. Her research primarily focuses on how individuals achieve innovation within limited resources using creative resourcing and reframing. Kannan’s background includes expertise in leadership to affect strategic change, designing interdisciplinary programs, employee development, alumni and community outreach, and creating inclusive work environments. Her educational background includes a PhD from UCLA Anderson School of Management and degrees from SJSU, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, and the University of Bombay.