Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/cob/about/silicon-valley-experience.php
Title: Silicon Valley Experience
Type: HTML

Silicon Valley Experience
We’re in the Heart of Silicon Valley
We are the largest contributor of business graduates to Silicon Valley and a major contributor to what the Valley is today. Like the university in which it is housed, the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business reflects the vibrant, multi-cultural and global atmosphere of Silicon Valley.
Discover the "Silicon Valley Experience" in Our MBA Program
Our MBA program offers a unique, experiential learning course called the "Silicon Valley Experience." This course immerses students in the culture of Silicon Valley, develops an entrepreneurial mindset for our students, and enables networking opportunities with C-suite executives.
Gain Real-World Experience in Our Business Honors Program
The highly selective program provides students with real-world work experience in the Silicon Valley while earning college credit through practicum courses. Work in teams with other similarly qualified students on a significant and meaningful project at a major organization in Silicon Valley.
Empower Your Entrepreneurial Skills
The Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship provides competitive programs and opportunities to assist students in developing their entrepreneurial skills. These include the Silicon Valley Innovation Challenge, the Silicon Valley Business Plan Competition, and the ZinnStarter Program.
Recent News
Guest Speakers And Networking In Silicon Valley: The SJSU MBA Advantage
With the privilege of being located in Silicon Valley, our faculty are able to draw on a landscape fertile with industry experts for the benefit of their students.
Empowering First-Gen Students: How SJSU’s MBA Programs Propel Students
Our MBA programs are transforming the lives of first-gen students, turning aspirations into achievements and paving new paths toward technological innovation and academic excellence.
Taking Care of (AI in) Business
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has captivated numerous individuals in the business world, such as Professor Nitin Aggarwal, who brings practical AI expertise into the classroom.
Why SJSU’s MBA Program With The Silicon Valley Experience Is The Ultimate Career Boost
Using a multifaceted approach, the Silicon Valley Experience elevates beyond four classroom walls and extends beyond one brief semester.
Silicon Valley Innovation Challenge Kicks Off Its 20th Year
In 2004, five years before ABC debuted its popular show “Shark Tank,” San José State University began inspiring creative minds to present their best ideas in an entrepreneurship competition unlike any other.