Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/cob/2025/11/12/2025-operations-and-supply-chain-management-summit-deconstructing-the-inaugural-events-impact-and-future
Title: 2025 Operations and Supply Chain Management Summit: Deconstructing the inaugural event’s impact and future
Type: HTML

Inspired by the visions and missions of the Lucas College of Business (LCoB), which center on empowering students to succeed as positive contributors of tomorrow’s workforce, the organizers of October 13th’s inaugural Operations and Supply Chain Management Summit endeavored to make a mark in their areas of expertise. Boasting an attendee roster of over 230 students, one can conclude their mission was accomplished!
The summit emphasized careers in operations and supply chain management and explored the future of AI, featuring insights from industry experts at Applied Materials, Cadence, Johnson & Johnson, and many more. Co-hosts of the event included the SJSU Operations and Supply Chain Management Association (OSCMA), School of Global Innovation and Leadership faculty, and SJSU’s Career Center, with Fastenal and Silicon Valley Center of Operations and Technology Management serving as sponsors.
For Ming Zhou, professor of operations and supply chain management, his motivation to lead the organization of the inaugural OSCM Summit was simple: to level the playing field for all students. After spending years building connections between current students and alumni, the idea of a summit to bring people together just made sense. “It is also a great way to inform all students that SCM is a career path,” says Zhou.
According to Yan “Diana” Wu, professor of operations and supply chain management and one of the summit’s faculty organizers, the summit’s theme took aim at preparing the next generation of supply chain professionals for what lies ahead amid a world of accelerating technological change. With AI at the forefront, robotics, digitalization and an increasing complexity in global business operations such as geopolitical risk, supply chain disruption, and sustainability requirements, young professionals are encountering a landscape that looks altogether different than it did even a few years ago.
When asked how students can prepare for AI-driven changes in organizational and supply chain careers, Wu recommends students embrace AI as another valuable tool rather than something to fear.
“The key is to have an open mind, develop adaptability and lifelong learning capabilities, and actively seek opportunities to engage with AI in play in operations/supply chain. Real-world exposure is a differentiator!”
Zhou says one way SJSU attracts corporate sponsors and participants is through the opportunity they are given to provide students with better awareness of their companies. With the OSCM program’s steady pipeline of highly-skilled students, summits like this one offer both sides a mutually beneficial chance to connect.
With sights set on building off the success of the inaugural summit, OSCM faculty are fast at work amassing ideas to consider for implementation into next year’s event. Among them are student-industry mentorship sessions to match students with practitioners/mentors, and pre-conference workshops that help OSCM students with resumes and interviews. Wu acknowledges that bringing any of the ideas for future summits to life will require continued support from the LCoB and dedication from the OSCM community.
On the topic of balancing the discussion of AI’s opportunities with its potential challenges, such as displacement or ethics, a lot remains to be considered.
“I think most people in this field are still in the process of exploring and deepening their understanding [of AI],” Wu said. “This balance between optimism and caution would be a great and particularly timely topic for the 2026 summit.”
Predicting how AI may change roles within supply chain management in the next five to 10 years can be tricky.
“In my view, supply chain management has always been about optimization, efficiency and productivity,” Wu noted. “And AI will further revolutionize these areas in the years ahead. It is hard for me to predict beyond that horizon.”
In order for faculty to stay current on the changes in OSCM as a result of AI advancements, Zhou and Taeho Park, professor of operations and supply chain management, have established an advisory board of senior industry executives who keep them informed of current trends and market needs. Additionally, Zhou says faculty members are actively researching and deploying AI tools, which will benefit students in classrooms.
Fortunately, with event organization contributions from School of Global Innovation and Leadership (SGIL) faculty such as Zhou, Wu, Park, Tianqin “Kelly” Shi, Xun “Peter” Xu and Shu Zhou, future summits can venture to address crucial industry topics as AI continues to rapidly unfurl in all areas.
To complement the fall summit, students can look forward to a “Young Professional” career panel this coming spring semester, organized by Jonathan Wu, adjunct professor in SGIL. The virtual event will feature recent OSCM graduates as panelists to discuss and showcase the variety of paths possible for a career in operations and supply chain. As details become available, they can be found on the OSCMA webpage.