Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/counselored/academics/pps-credential-only.php
Title: Post Master's Pupil Personnel Services School Counseling (PPS-SC) Credential Only Program
Type: HTML

Post Master's Pupil Personnel Services School Counseling (PPS-SC) Credential Only Program
Please note that although there are three types of PPS Credentials (PPS in School Counseling, PPS in School Social Work, PPS in School Psychology), our department's is specifically a PPS Credential in School Counseling.
The San Jose State University's School of Social Work offers program options for the PPS in School Social Work. For more information, please go to School of Social Work PPSC Credentials.
If you are interested in learning more about the program options offered through SJSU's Counselor Education Department and their requirements, please sign up to attend a department information session. Information session dates and times can be found on the department's home page at https://www.sjsu.edu/counselored/
Post Master's Credential Only FAQ's
Q: I am a K-12 educator with a master’s degree in education. Would this be considered a qualifying degree for the post-masters credential only program?
A: No. The qualifying degree must be in counseling or a closely related clinical field in order to be eligible for admission to this program. Prospective applicants who hold a master’s degree in education or in another discipline are encouraged to apply for ourmaster’s in counseling and guidance program so that they can complete the degree and K-12 school counseling specialization (i.e., credential preparation).
Q: I’m eager to get started in this program right away. How soon can I start?
A: Individuals who are interested in the post-master’s credential only program must apply to the program and be admitted before they can begin. We have fall and spring admissions.
Q: How long will it take me to complete this program?
A: Our post-masters credential only program requires a minimum of 18 semester units over four semesters. Students in this program complete all school counseling specialization courses, practicum, and fieldwork.
Q: Can you tell me which classes I will need to take?
A: In order to meet the requirements outlined for the preparation of school counselors by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing, everyone who is admitted into the post-master’s credential only program will complete the school counseling specialization, practicum, and fieldwork courses. In addition, after an applicant has accepted their admissions offer, they will undergo a thorough syllabi and transcript review to determine if any additional coursework is needed to meet our CTC-approved program requirements. An individualized plan of study will be developed for each student.
Q: How much will it cost to complete the program?
A: San José State University is part of the California State University system. Tuition is determined each academic year by the Board of Trustees. Information about this year’s tuition can be found through the SJSU Bursar’s Office.
Q: I completed fieldwork in my master’s program. Can I count those hours toward my fieldwork hours in the post-master’s credential only program.
A: No. The California Commission on Teacher Credentialing requires students who are
enrolled in a school counseling program to complete 100 hours of practicum before
they begin their 800 hours of fieldwork. In our program, practicum and fieldwork are
tied to specific courses which cover key areas in school counseling program and required
content for credential preparation.
To know more about the Pupil Personnel Services School Counseling Credential and its requirements, please use this link: PPS-SC Credential Requirements