Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/counselored/academics/faculty-led-programs.php
Title: Department of Counselor Education
Type: HTML

Faculty-Led Study Abroad
It is critical that counselors are well-prepared to advance learning and development, informed by a strong commitment and paradigmatic orientation to social justice. Through our faculty-led study abroad programs, students learn about and reflect on issues of community and cultural development, international and cross-cultural issues, sustainability (environmental, social, political, and economic), community development and human service, and human rights and citizenship education. Learn more about our recent study abroad course below.
Cultivating Global Mindedness
Costa Rica | Winter 2019
This program featured a partnership with the U.N-Mandated University for Peace (UPEACE), located in San Jose, Costa Rica. UPEACE was established in December 1980 as a Treaty Organization by the UN General Assembly. UPeace's Mission is: “to provide humanity with an international institution of higher education for peace with the aim of promoting among all human beings the spirit of understanding, tolerance and peaceful coexistence, to stimulate cooperation among peoples and to help lessen obstacles and threats to world peace and progress, in keeping with the noble aspirations proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations.”
Faculty Program Leaders:
- Dr. Jason Laker
- Dr. Dolores Mena
This course utilized inquiry-based and seminar-style learning experiences. In addition to the program leaders, students had opportunities to learn from distinguished international and local guest speakers and facilitators in classroom settings at the UPEACE campus and on guided tours and site visits.
Other program years in Costa Rica included: 2012, 2013, 2014, 2105, and 2018. Check out some of the pictures below.
Costa Rica Winter 2019:
Class at the University for Peace
School in La Carpio
Monteverde Cloud Forrest Reserve
UPeace Outdoor Group Activity
Tarcoles Sustainable Fishing Village
Costa Rica Winter 2018:
La Carpio
Spice Farm
Downtown San Jose, Costa Rica
University for Peace (UPeace) Monument
Nacientes Palmichal
Costa Rica Winter 2015:
University for Peace (UPeace) Monument
Nacientes Palmichal
Costa Rica Winter 2014:
Butterfly Farm
Painting Homes with the Kids in La Carpio
La Carpio - Picture with Kids and Painted Trash Dispensary
University for Peace (UPeace) Monument
Costa Rica Winter 2013:
University of Costa Rica
Nacientes Palmichal
Cloud Forest School
Costa Rica Winter 2012:
Coffee Farm
University for Peace (UPeace) Classroom
Nacientes Palmichal
Poas Volcano