Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/counselored/students.php
Title: Meet Our Students
Type: HTML

Meet Our Students
Counselor Education students are deeply engaged in their communities and committed to social justice with their students and clients. Learn about a few of our current and recent students below for a better understanding of who they are and how they are becoming transformative counselors.
Graduate student Janeth Canseco represented her peers as one of the student speakers at the Spring 2021 SJSU Lurie College of Education Graduation Celebration. Watch Janeth's remarks beginning at 20:58 of the video above.
“As a future community college counselor, I am keenly determined to decrease these unequal, recurring rates by closing the achievement gap among first-generation, low-income college students from diverse backgrounds so that they can attain their educational goals.”
Huy Le was selected by the SJSU College of Graduate Studies to receive the Bertha Kalm scholarship for the 2021-2022 academic year. Learn more about Huy on the College of Graduate Studies' blog.
“I have learned many lessons during the seven years that I have spent with #SJSU. The most impactful is the value of authenticity.”
Briettny Curtner was featured by SJSU as an extraordinary graduate. Read the feature on the SJSU Newsroom blog.
Graduate student McKenzie (Campana) Ramer collaborated with our Lurie College of Education Student Success Center to lead a mindfulness exercise that focused on checking in with ourselves and listening to our bodies.
Recent alumni Nicole Ellis returned to campus virtually and partnered with our Lurie College of Education Student Success Center to share her insights around making the transition to post-graduate life.
Counselor Education student Victor Calvillo is a co-host of the student-led dialogue series Emancipatory Education Now. Watch the recent dialogue that Victor led with students from across the SJSU Lurie College of Education around decolonization in education.
Learn from Brenda, Brianna, Eric, and Maddie, who presented "Stop It Firm Legal Training" as part of their final project in their EDCO 227: School-Family-Community Collaboration course and as part of the Fall 2020 Lurie College Learning Showcase.
Learn from John, Rosa, Lupita, Rosa, and Yisel, who presented "Digging for Success: Supporting Students’ Transition from Middle School to High School" as part of their final project in their EDCO 227: School-Family-Community Collaboration course and as part of the Fall 2020 Lurie College Learning Showcase.
Learn from Barbara, Carolina, George, and Julie, who presented "Teacher SEL Conference" as part of their final project in their EDCO 227: School-Family-Community Collaboration course and as part of the Fall 2020 Lurie College Learning Showcase.
Learn from Ileana, Jasmin, Miriam, and Oscar, who presented "Welcome to San Jose High School" as part of their final project in their EDCO 227: School-Family-Community Collaboration course and as part of the Fall 2020 Lurie College Learning Showcase.
Learn from Cynthia, Mariela, Monica, and Sandra, who presented "Technology 101 Workshop" as part of their final project in their EDCO 227: School-Family-Community Collaboration course and as part of the Fall 2020 Lurie College Learning Showcase.
Anne Lockmiller was a co-host of the SJSU Lurie College of Education web series, Emancipatory Education Now, during the Fall 2020 semester. Watch the episode that she led "Cultures of Power in the Classroom" in the video above and watch all of the videos in the series on the Emancipatory Education Now webpage.
Paloma Contreras was selected by the SJSU College of Graduate Studies to receive the Bertha Kalm scholarship for the 2020-2021 academic year. Learn more about Paloma on the College of Graduate Studies' website.
Learn more about Lorenzo Gomez, a current graduate student. In this video, Lorenzo highlights how his educational experience at the Lurie College of Education has been culturally sustaining and community engaging.
Congratulations to Anthony Zelaya-Umanzor, graduate student in the Lurie College Department of Counselor Education, who recently earned the James William Allen Service Scholarship from the H.B. McDaniel Foundation. Watch this video to learn about his professional goals related to service in the field of school counseling.
Department of Counselor Education alumni, Alejandra Oseguera, was recently featured on Somos En Escrito, The Latino Literary Online Magazine, after she turned to art while she was diagnosed with Coronavirus in March 2020. View some of her works from the series “Just a Breath / Solo un Suspiro” on Alejandra's website.
Marili Avalos was the recipient of Florian and Grace Niemcziek Endowment for the 2019-2020 academic year. Watch this video to learn more about when she knew she wanted to go into the field of education as a career and how Lurie College is enabling her to pursue her goals.
Alejandra Lopez-Flores was the recipient of the Masterjohn Scholarship Fund for Education fund for the 2019-2020 academic year. Watch this video to learn more about when she knew she wanted to go into the field of education and which Counselor Education faculty have impacted her most.
Nicole Ellis was the recipient of the College of Education Scholarship Endowment award for the 2019-2020 academic year. Watch this video to learn more about a significant learning moment that she had and how our program has enabled her to pursue her goals.