Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/counselored/academics/undergraduate-courses.php
Title: Undergraduate Courses
Type: HTML

Undergraduate Courses
EDCO 001: Career Readiness 1
This course actively engages undergraduate students in exploring academic majors and career pathways, helping them make informed, intentional decisions about their futures. The course curriculum is grounded in career development theory and design thinking, incorporates trends and insights from the World Economic Forum on the future of work, and aligns with the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) career readiness competencies. EDCO 1 is a student-centered, accessible course that equips San Jose State University students with the skills and confidence to graduate career-ready.
EDCO 004/4FY: Personal, Academic, and Career Exploration (GE Area E, 3 units)
This course explores the concepts and applications of personal decision-making, provides an introduction to lifespan development concepts through the use of self-assessment instruments and procedures, and provides an orientation to various helpful resources at San Jose State University.
Throughout the course, students participate in career exploration and investigate challenges facing an ever-changing job market. In addition, students assess how individuals make career choices that are suitable for them and are viable in society. Students are provided with opportunities to assess their values, interests, personality, and skills used to advance their educational and career plans. Students also learn critical skills such as: communication, decision-making, time management, research and study skills, and goal-setting techniques that support academic and personal success at the university and post-graduation.
EDCO 180: Individual Studies - Life Beyond the Baccalaureate: An Introduction to Graduate and Professional School (2 units)
This course introduces students to education beyond the baccalaureate degree by facilitating an exploration of graduate/professional school. Topics convered include degree types and descriptions, admissions requirements and application processes, required exams, and exit requirements. The course also orients students to resources that facilitate the achievement of post-baccalaureate academic and personal goals.
More SJSU Lurie College of Education Helpful Undergraduate Resources
- Student Success Center - Utilize this space in Sweeney Hall 106 to meet with academic advisors, get writing support, attend workshops, and more.
- Undergraduate minors - We offer 5 minors across our Child & Adolescent Development, Special Education, and Teacher Education Departments.
- Connect with Lurie College - Connect with our social media profiles and visit our Lurie College blog to receive more news about academic and student life.