Source: https://sjsu.edu/discover
Title: Discover SJSU
Type: HTML

Welcome to San José State University! Whether you're an incoming or prospective student
and family, new to SJSU as faculty or staff, or a visitor to our campus, Discover
SJSU is your one-stop resource for exploring all we have to offer. From events to
supportive services, and whether you're joining us on campus or virtually, we welcome
you to live the Spartan Life!
From Weeks of Welcome at the start of every semester to Homecoming, the Spartan Speakers
Series, and year-round events on the 7th Street Plaza and across campus, students
have endless opportunities for free, fun, and engaging opportunities to connect with
the Spartan community.
Explore all the on-campus and off-campus university housing options available to students
during the academic year and visitors to the campus during the summer months.
From inclusive and supportive resources provided through SJSU Cares, to accessible
education support, to campus escorts and reporting procedures and holistic mental
and physicall wellness, SJSU fosters a caring community for all.
Explore SJSU's state-of-the-art Spartan Recreation and Aquatic Center (SRAC) filled
with classes and physical fitness programming available to students, faculty and staff.
SJSU offers comprehensive and holistic supportive services from counseling to assistance
for unforseen life circumstances. Access all resources at sjsu.edu/wellness.
While an SJSU education ranks highly in terms of value and the lower levels of debt
with which students graduate, resources are available to help bring down the cost
of attendance even more.
Various organizations and affinity/identity groups are on campus to provide students
with the inclusive and accessible academic and community support that one would expect
from an area as diverse as San José.
San José State University recognizes over 450 student organizations. Students are
encouraged to participate in one of the many clubs as this is the best way to connect
with campus life!
Experience the largest joint City-University library west of the Mississippi at the
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library with programming and resources for students, faculty,
staff and the general public.
As the capital of Silicon Valley—a vibrant city at the center of innovation, creativity
and technology—there is so much to love and celebrate about this place we call home.
Get familiar with the variety of applications you will utilize in your online learning
environment. Find workshops and resources to develop your study skills and time management
practices.