Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/diversity/index.php
Title: Diversity
Type: HTML

Commitment to Diversity
San Jose State is unique in its storied and long history of student civil rights activism, service to first-generation student populations, racial and ethnic diversity, and location in the vibrant cultural communities and robust economy of the Silicon Valley of California. The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion [ODEI] is dedicated to the standards of Institutional Excellence, which view San Jose State's mission of academic excellence as inseparable from our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. The ODEI works to create a campus community that is free from discrimination and free from systemic and cultural barriers to academic and professional success for all of its students, faculty, staff and administrators regardless of race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin. The ODEI envisions a campus where its members engage in robust intergroup dialogue, and collaboration across groups, divisions and silos.
Working to Combat Systemic Racism at SJSU
Though we are proud to be one of the most diverse campus communities in the nation, action is needed more than ever to address systemic racism at San José State University. And action is what we are taking. The President’s Leadership team on Equity and Justice is facilitating and coordinating the university’s initiatives on racial equity and justice. This leadership team is charged with understanding the initiatives being generated on campus and the tracking of the follow-through in achieving the goals of those initiatives. Learn about SJSU’s immediate steps—as well as intermediate and long-term plans—to create permanent organizational change with regard to systemic racism on our campus.
Anti-immigrant sentiment, Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, and other forms of bias have always been with us. The current pandemic has seen an exponential rise in anti-Asian discrimination and milder microaggressions. We recognize the horrific disparities in higher morbidity and infection rates for Black/African Americans, Native Americans, and Latinx peoples from COVID-19 across the country. These collective realities have a great impact on the climate, organizational identity, and retention of employees. Crafted within the complex cultural and political contexts of the Bay Area, this webinar will (1) introduce historical and social psychological frameworks for organizational leaders and team members to understand the dynamics of COVID-19 xenophobia and bias, and (2) offer research-informed interventions and strategies to address anti-Asian bias incidents when they occur in the context of crisis. Target participants span from team members to people who hold positions of leadership in their organizations.
Report Incident
Experienced or witnessed discrimination, harassment, or retaliation? Use this confidential form.
ODEI provides a variety of techinical assistance, consultation, resources and training, along with other offices on campus. Learn more about our social justice educational work and partnerships by visiting ODEI's Education page.
InterGroup Dialogues for Staff and Faculty coming soon.
InterGroup Dialogue [IGD] is a research-based bias reduction practice to promote social justice.
Muwekma Ohlone SJSU Area Land Acknowledgement
The San José State University community recognizes that the present-day Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. Visit this page for the Muwekma Ohlone SJSU Area Land Acknowledgement, history, resources and links.
If you have experienced or witnessed discrimination, harassment, or retaliation based on a protected status (including age, disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, and veteran or military status), we encourage you to make a report or contact the Office for Title IX and Equal Opportunity for resources and assistance.
Institutional Excellence Council
Learn more about the Institutional Excellence Council - structure, mission and members.