Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/edleadership/frequently-asked-questions.php
Title: Frequently Asked Questions
Type: HTML

Frequently Asked Questions
- General Questions
- MA, Emancipatory K12 School Leadership (MELS) Specific
- MA, Higher Education Leadership (HELM) Specific
- Higher Education Teaching Certificate (HETC) Specific
General Questions
Information regarding application deadline and cost of tuition. Is there somewhere I can locate this information?
MA, Higher Education Leadership Program
MA, K-12 Emancipatory School Leadership Program
- Application deadline is April 1st
- Tuition cost for regular session (master’s programs) can be found here: Fall Registration Fees and Spring Registration Fees
Is this program geared mostly toward people currently working in the school system?
HELM: While most students go on to work in colleges & universities, this degree is not
exclusive to work in higher education. Graduates can also go on to work in private
industry. Other students have branched out and worked for educational nonprofits or
nonprofits in general.
MELS: Yes, this program is geared toward people working in the PK- 12 schooling system.
What careers and positions do the department's programs prepare students for?
HELM: Most students do go on to work in colleges & universities, many in student affairs.
Graduates can work in a number of offices, such as student affairs, housing, and other
areas. Many issues being tackled in addressing leadership in this critical way could
also apply to industry. Graduates can also work for educational nonprofits or nonprofits
in general. This is the type of degree that can be massaged into individual interests.
For example, a student interested in special ed could work for a school district or
nonprofit.
MELS: Most students in this program are current teachers and/or administrators in PK-12
schools. Graduates gain social justice leadership perspectives and go on to leadership
positions within their school districts.
Which program allows me to get an admin credential?
We don't offer admin credential programs.
Refer to the Credentials Office for more information.
Do you offer a Ph.D. program?
Unfortunately, San José State University does not offer any Ph.D. programs. We do offer a Doctoral Program in Ed.D.
When does the Cal State Apply application open?
November 1st
Are your courses in-person or online?
The MELS program is fully online, with both synchronous and asynchronous components. The HELM program is primarily online, also with synchronous and asynchronous components, but requires limited weekend/Saturday gatherings.
Are there any grants or scholarships available?
A select number of $250 scholarships are available for early applicants who gain admission!
Are there any recommendations for those students who fall below the 3.0 minimum GPA requirements?
If you experienced any challenges or hardships in maintaining a 3.0 GPA, we encourage you to apply anyway and reach out to our office to let us know.
If you have taken any post-baccalaureate coursework, including community college courses, it is always helpful to note those as well.
Do you offer an online master’s program?
The MELS program is fully online. The HELM program is primarily online but requires limited weekend/Saturday gatherings.
Master’s in Emancipatory School Leadership (MELS) Specific
Is a Preliminary Administrative Services Credential (PASC) required? Encouraged?
A Preliminary Administrative Services Credential (PASC) is not required to enroll in this program
How is the Preliminary Administrative Services Credential (PASC) credit earned?
All California Administrative Credentials can be used as 12 units towards this MA
What other credits can be transferred?
Credits can only be used if they have not been already applied toward a degree. Credits will be evaluated after admission to the program. Please email Dr. Rebeca Burciaga at rebeca.burciaga@sjsu.edu with any questions or requests for exceptions.
Is the program only oriented towards leaders in the K-12 community?
Currently our program serves PreK-12 leaders in both schools and community settings.
How does the PASC/CalAPA affect program requirements?
Students who have completed the PASC/CalAPA will be able to transfer 12 units of coursework and will complete the remaining 18 units through MELS coursework.
Students who have not completed the PASC (Preliminary Administrative Services Credential)/CalAPA (PASC Assessment) will be enrolled in the individualized pathway and take courses as a specialization in an area of interes related to educational leadership. These courses will be pre-approved by the department.
MA, Higher Education Leadership (HELM) Specific
When are the deadlines to apply for this coming year?
The application window for the 2026-27 cohort opens on November 1, 2025 and closes April 1, 2026 for Summer 2026 admissions.
Is the lived experience portion like an internship/externship or is it a class?
The 217A and 217B are Living Case Study courses. These are companion courses and not an internship program.
Is there a practicum/internship portion?
As noted above, the 217a and 217b courses are designed to offer an applied practicum experience; however, they are courses, not internships.
What does the schedule look like?
Courses are generally offered on weekdays between 4-9pm. There are also Saturday classes offered between 9am-1pm. The courses are delivered online in a synchronous format.
When do classes begin in the semester? Are there gaps of time in between the start and finish of classes or are they all consecutive?
The HELM Program is an intensive one-year program that begins in the summer and ends the following summer. Please visit the HELM website for more information.
Do I need to have a bachelor's degree to enroll in the HELM program?
Yes, you should have earned bachelor’s degree or be in the process of completing your bachelor’s degree to enroll in the HELM program.
How many units are required to complete the HELM program? Are all courses in the HELM program graduate level?
There are 30 units required to complete the HELM program; this equals 10 classes at 3 units per class. All courses are graduate-level courses.
Can I transfer units into the HELM program?
Yes, there is a possibility of transferring up to 9 units into the HELM program. However, all requests to transfer units must be approved by the Educational Leadership Department chair and the HELM program coordinator.
Do I need letters of recommendation to apply to the HELM program?
Yes, letters of recommendation are required. It is highly recommended that at least one of these letters should come from someone who can speak to your academic background such as a former instructor, advisor, or T.A.. In the absence of an academic recommender, applicants are encouraged to reach out to supervisors, mentors, or others who can speak to your preparation and fit into the HELM program.
Do I need an official transcript?
Yes, you need official transcripts showing you have an earned bachelor’s degree or you in the process of completing your bachelor’s degree. Applicants must have their earned bachelor's degree by the time the HELM program starts in early summer.
Is the HELM program open to international students?
No
When and how are classes held? What does the schedule look like?
The HELM program is primarily an online program. Most classes are scheduled on weekdays between 4-9pm or on Saturdays between 9-1pm. However, there are some courses that may require limited weekend/Saturday gatherings.
How large of a cohort does the HELM program enroll?
Enrollments are contingent on the application pool. We aim to enroll a cohort of between 20 to 25 students.
Is the program full-time? Or, can students enroll on a part-time basis?
Yes, the HELM program is a full-time program. Students are expected to take two courses each during their incoming summer and during their graduating summer. In between, during the fall and spring semesters, students are expected to take three classes. Students may opt to take two classes in the fall and spring, however, this will extend their degree completion by a year and will likely increase their overall program cost.
Higher Education Teaching Certificate (HETC) Specific
Who should enroll in the higher education teaching certificate?
This program was developed for faculty teaching at higher education institutions and graduate students who are considering a teaching career at a higher education setting.
Do I need a master's degree to enroll in this program?
You should have a master’s degree or be enrolled in postgraduate program to enroll in this certificate.
Can this certificate be used for professional development?
Yes. This certificate can count as professional development at community colleges.
Are the courses in the certificate graduate level?
Yes, the three required courses are graduate-level.
Are the courses letter grade only?
Yes, these courses are letter grade only. No Pass/Fail option.
Do I need letters of recommendation?
No, you do not need letters of recommendation to apply or be admitted to the certificate program.
Do I need an official transcript?
Yes
Can I repeat any of these courses?
Yes, you can repeat the courses if you consider it necessary.
If I'm an international student student, do I need to take the TOEFL?
Please see the test requirements for admission in the following page: https://www.sjsu.edu/admissions/graduate/admission-requirements/test-requirements/
Are these courses transferable to any SJSU degree?
Currently, only EDLD 212 is transferable to the MA Higher Education Leadership program offered by the Department of Educational Leadership in the Lurie College of Education.
Are the classes online or on campus?
Two of the courses (EDLD 212 and EDLD 250) are offered online. The third course (EDLD 251) is offered in hybrid format, with lectures/seminars online and teaching practicum in person.
Is the teaching practicum a requirement?
Yes, the teaching practicum is a key component of the EDLD 251 class and is required in order to obtain the certificate.
Can I choose my own teaching practicum site?
Yes, students can select their own practicum site and work with the department and practicum faculty member to ensure practicum learning outcomes and requirements are achieved.
What's the cost per unit?
The cost per unit is $361 for Summer '25 and $379 for Fall '25. The total tuition cost for the certificate is approximately $3303.00.