Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/edleadership/academics/certificate.php
Title: Higher Education Teaching Certificate
Type: HTML

Higher Education Teaching Certificate
Become a postsecondary instructor!
Our Higher Education Teaching certificate program provides graduate-level coursework and classroom experience to prepare current and future higher education instructors. This certificate program is aimed at developing postsecondary faculty’s culturally-sustaining and responsive pedagogical knowledge grounded in social justice, equity, and inclusion. The program offers a well rounded experience that integrates theory and teaching practicum. The program is offered in a hybrid modality, with the courses taught online and the practicum activities taking place in person.
If you’re a current Master's student (at a non-CSU campus) or a faculty member at a postsecondary institution, the Higher Education Teaching Certificate is for you!
- Program Overview
- Admission Requirements
- Course Schedule
- Upcoming Info Sessions
- Steps to Apply
- Frequently Asked Questions
- Contact Us
Program Overview
- Format: Online during the summer, hybrid during the fall
- Units: 9 units / 3 courses
- Start term: Summer 2026
- Application window: November 1, 2025 to April 15, 2026
- Application Deadline: April 15, 2026
- Transcripts Deadline: April 15, 2026
Initial Eligibility and Requirements
- MA/MS Degree from a regionally accredited institution or currently enrolled in a MA/MS
program
- Minimum GPA of 2.5, based on a 4.0 scale
- Candidates must also meet all SJSU admissions requirements
- TOEFL score of 600 and above (for international students only)
-
Applicants from countries in which the native language is not English must submit TOEFL scores. Minimum TOEFL scores acceptable for admission are 600 (paper-based), 250 (computer-based), or 100 (internet-based)
-
Course Schedule
| Summer 2026 | 2 Courses (6 units) |
|
EDLD 212- Diversity, Equity, and Social Justice in Higher Education EDLD 250- Emancipatory Pedagogy in Higher Education |
|
Fall 2026 | 1 Course (3 units) |
|---|
|
15 week session EDLD 251- Higher Education Teaching Practicum |
For more details about each of these courses, visit the SJSU Catalog website.
Upcoming Info Sessions
Join our faculty-led information sessions to learn more about the Higher Education Teaching Certificate (HETC) program. Please register by clicking on one of the Zoom registration links below.
- Thursday, January 29, 10-11am – Zoom Registration Link
- Wednesday, February 4, 12-1pm – Zoom Registration Link
- Monday, February 9, 4-5pm – Zoom Registration Link
- Thursday, February 19, 12-1pm – Zoom Registration Link
- Wednesday, February 25, 10:30-11:30am – Zoom Registration Link
- Thursday, March 5, 9-10am – Zoom Registration Link
- Wednesday, March 11, 12-1pm – Zoom Registration Link
- Monday, March 16, 9:30-10:30am – Zoom Registration Link
- Monday, March 23, 4-5pm – Zoom Registration Link
To receive updates, including application timelines and important announcements, please fill out the Educational Leadership Program Interest Form.
Please contact the department at edleadership@sjsu.edu for more information regarding the program.
Steps to Apply
International students only: Contact WES to have your international transcripts evaluated. You will also be required to take the TOEFL test and have ETS send your official TOEFL transcript to SJSU.
Step 1 | Notify Our Department
Contact Dr. María Ledesma, Higher Educational Leadership Program Coordinator, at maria.ledesma@sjsu.edu to make her aware of your interest.
Step 2 | Begin your Cal State Apply application
Follow the instructions provided SJSU Graduate Admissions Office to apply for admission to San Jose State University via CalState Apply.
- Summer 2026 application deadline: April 15, 2026
- Program name: Certificate, Higher Education Teaching
- Visit calstate.edu/apply to create your application profile and pay the $70 application fee.
Step 3 | Prepare Your Response
Essay Prompt
- In no more than 300 words per answer, please respond to the following two questions:
- Please describe your teaching philosophy and how you respond to and incorporate diverse perspectives in your pedagogy?
- What is the role of institutions of higher education in addressing issues of diversity and social justice?
Step 4 | Submit Your Transcripts
Request one official transcript from each college/university where you studied and submit the official sealed transcript(s) directly from each college/university to the SJSU Graduate Admissions office at:
Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations
San Jose State University
One Washington Square
San Jose, CA 95192-0017
If the college/university provides official electronic transcripts, the institution can email the transcripts to etranscript@sjsu.edu. Questions pertaining to transcripts, GPA calculations, and application fees should be directed to admissions@sjsu.edu.
Step 5 | Submit Your Application
Once you submit your application via Cal State Apply, check your application status online at one.sjsu.edu. Your ID and PINs are provided shortly by SJSU's Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations Office after you submit your application via Cal State Apply.
The total application processing time is between five to six weeks after all necessary documents have been received by the Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations Office, so we recommend that you submit your application early in the processing cycle.
Frequently Asked Questions
Who should enroll in the higher education teaching certificate?
This program was developed for faculty teaching at higher education institutions and graduate students who are considering a teaching career at a higher education setting.
Do I need to have a master’s degree to enroll in this program?
To enroll in this certificate, you should have a master’s degree, be enrolled in postgraduate program, or be currently pursuing a master's degree at SJSU.
Can this certificate be used for professional development?
Yes. This certificate can count as professional development at community colleges.
Are the courses in the certificate graduate level?
Yes, the three required courses are graduate level.
Are the courses letter grade only?
Yes, these courses are letter grade only. No Pass/Fail option.
Do I need letters of recommendation?
No, you do not need letters of recommendation to apply or be admitted to the certificate program.
Do I need an official transcript?
Yes, you need an official transcript showing you have a master’s degree or you are enrolled in a postgraduate program.
Can I repeat any of the courses?
Yes, you can repeat the courses if you consider it necessary.
Is the HETC program open to international students?
No
Are these courses transferable to any SJSU degree?
Currently, only EDLD 212 is transferable to the MA Higher Education Leadership program offered by the Department of Educational Leadership in the Lurie College of Education.
Are the classes online or on-campus?
Two of the courses (EDLD 212 and EDLD 250) are offered online. The third course (EDLD 251) is offered in hybrid format, with lectures/seminars online and teaching practicum in person.
Is the teaching practicum a requirement?
Yes, the teaching practicum is a key component of the EDLD 251 class and is required in order to obtain the certificate.
Where can I do my teaching practicum?
The Department of Education Leadership has established MOUs with local community colleges, so students can complete their teaching practicum. The department will provide a list of participating sites and students will contact the participating college.
Can I choose my own teaching practicum site?
Yes, students can select their own practicum site from the list of local community college partners and work with the department and practicum faculty member to ensure practicum learning outcomes and requirements are achieved.
What’s the cost per unit?
The cost per unit is $379 for Summer '26 and $397 for Fall '26. The total tuition cost for the certificate is approximately $3465.00. Additional details may be found on the SJSU Professional Education fee page at https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/resources/academic-year.php.
For more information and to apply, email the Department of Educational Leadership, at edleadership@sjsu.edu.