Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/education/student-resources/organizations.php
Title: Student Organizations and Leadership
Type: HTML

Student Organizations and Leadership
Learn about the numerous opportunities for SJSU Lurie College of Education undergraduate, graduate, credential, and doctoral students to get involved in the community through student organizations and leadership roles.
Lurie College Student Ambassador Group
Student Ambassadors (SAs) are dedicated to welcoming new and prospective students, creating a strong college community, and exploring pre-professional networking opportunities. Under the guidance of the Lurie College Office of Community Engagement, our Student Ambassadors participate in the development and implementation of events that foster a strong community. If you are enthusiastic about representing Lurie College and creating meaningful experiences for future and current students, speak with your department chair directly or contact Community Engagement Specialist, Richard Hernandez to learn more.
Child and Adolescent Development Club
The Child & Adolescent Development (ChAD) club is a student-run organization that is open to all interested students, alumni, and faculty in the Child & Adolescent Development department. For more information about upcoming events and opportunities, visit the ChAD Club Instagram, Facebook group, or webpage.
Counselor Education Graduate Organization (CEGO)
CEGO creates an inclusive community for graduate students studying in the Counselor Education Department of the Connie L. Lurie College of Education by providing networking opportunities, practical experiences, and a space to voice opinions. For more information, visit the CEGO webpage or check out their Instagram.
National Student Speech Language Hearing Association Chapter
The National Student Speech Language Hearing Association (NSSLHA) is a national organization for undergraduate and/or graduate students who are interested in the study of speech language pathology and/or audiology. It is the only organization of its kind recognized by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA). Founded in 1972, NSSLHA now has over 18,000 members and local chapters at more than 285 colleges and universities.
The Silicon Valley's local chapter was founded at San José State University in 1977. SJSU NSSLHA members are active in fundraising and community service, and attend various educational programs such as guest lectures and regional, state and national conferences. For more information about upcoming events and opportunities, visit the SJSU NSSHLA Instagram, X (Twitter), Facebook page, or webpage.