Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/education/community/index.php
Title: Community
Type: HTML

Community
Our impact extends far beyond the borders of Sweeney Hall through our numerous community partnerships with students and colleagues across SJSU as well as school districts, foundations, and community-based organizations throughout the San José region and beyond. Learn more about several of our initiatives below.
Queer Hope Institute
Queer and trans youth across the country–even here in the Bay Area–continue to experience violence and discrimination, leading to elevated risk of depression, suicidality, and negative academic and health outcomes. Research shows that sustained, affirming programming can counteract these harms by fostering hope, joy, and purpose. However, many existing initiatives face challenges due to a lack of institutional partners, logistical support, or expertise and time needed to document their impact. The Queer Hope Institute meets this vital need for resources and capacity by providing evaluation and strategy expertise, serving as a community-university bridge, and designing and implementing new programming—ensuring that every queer and trans youth in the Bay Area can access spaces that uplift, empower, and sustain them.
Celebration of Teaching
Each year at SJSU, the Lurie College of Education hosts the Celebration of Teaching. During the Spring 2021 semester, we asked local middle school teachers, high school teachers, community college faculty, and SJSU faculty to nominate students that possess the qualities to become transformative future educators. Congratulations to the 41 nominees who have been recognized and awarded with a $1000 scholarship towards any Lurie College credential program.
Center for Innovation in Applied Education Policy
Serving At-Promise Youth in K-12 education across California. The IAEP Center is based at San José State University and serves to empower California systems of support providers to better serve at-promise students. The Center is committed to interprofessional and interdisciplinary collaboration centered on closing opportunity gaps.
Early Childhood Institute
Recognizing the potential each and every child brings into the world, SJSU's Early Childhood Institute (ECI) seeks to transform the field of early learning and care through impactful research, training and advocacy efforts that promote equitable, high-quality, and inclusive early learning and care settings to benefit all children.
Healthy Development Community Clinic
The HD Clinic is a unique proposed collaboration between faculty and students from the programs of Child & Adolescent Development, Speech-Language Pathology, and Clinical Psychology. Located within the community, the HD Clinic will promote equity in access to high-quality, preventative, and family-centered interprofessional care. Culturally sustaining practices and trauma-informed care will guide intervention and collaboration building on existing strengths, protective factors, social support, and community resources.
Institute for Regenerative Futures
The Institute for Regenerative Futures is an intergenerational community-based collective of Black and other Indigenous co-conspiratorial educators, elders, healing practitioners, memory workers (researchers) and beloved community. Our collective emerged through timely intersections of community engagement, education, and research that highlight the psychological, emotional, and physiological impacts of anti-blackness and colonization.
Queer Educators and Counselors Network
The Queer Educators and Counselors Network (QECN) at the SJSU Lurie College of Education creates a safe and affirming space for educators, counselors, and students to appreciate diversity in sexual and gender identities. We also provide support, training, and resources to help students, faculty, and staff examine their own practice and engage with their own understandings of gender and sexuality. Through individual and group support, professional development opportunities, research activities, and advocacy, we hope to empower our community and world.
STEM+C Teacher Institute
The SJSU Lurie College of Education has created summer opportunities for current credential candidates, SJSU alumni, future SJSU credential candidates, and teachers in partner districts to develop their knowledge, skills, and abilities to teach math and/or computer science at no cost in an effort to pursue educational equity and social justice by reducing STEM barriers in education.