Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/education/student-resources/research.php
Title: Student Research Opportunities
Type: HTML

Student Research Opportunities
The SJSU Lurie College of Education prides itself in creating and advocating for opportunities for our undergraduate, graduate, credential, and doctoral students to participate in valuable research opportunities through Lurie College, at SJSU, and beyond.
Lurie College Student Research Awards
The LCOE Student-Research Award funds stipends for student researchers to collaborate
on research activities supervised by LCOE faculty. These awards are designed to support
student-faculty collaboration on a faculty member’s ongoing or proposed research project
in the student’s field of study. Faculty are invited to complete and submit this application
form through the Fall semester, while funds remain available. Applications will not
be accepted beyond Feb 1st, 2026.
Please use this form to submit your application.
If you have any questions about developing a concept or approach to your application, please contact Interim Associate Dean of Research, Emily Slusser. If you have any questions about submitting the application itself, please contact luriecollege@sjsu.edu.
Lurie College Student Conference Travel Grant
Lurie College is proud to provide financial support to its students who are presenting their research at conferences. Undergraduate, graduate, credential, and doctoral students are eligible to apply for up to one $500 grant per fiscal year (July 1 - May 20) towards expenses for registration fees, travel, lodging, and meals.
Lurie College Student Research Supplies Grant
Lurie College is also proud to provide financial support to its students who are in need of supplies to conduct their academic research. Undergraduate, graduate, credential, and doctoral students are eligible to apply for up to one $200 grant per fiscal year (July 1 - May 31) towards expenses for research supplies. A limited amount of funding is available.
Lurie College Learning Showcase
This event takes place at the end of the fall and spring semesters and highlights Lurie College undergraduate, graduate, credential, and doctoral students' academic accomplishments while they're on their journeys to becoming transformative educators, counselors, therapists, school and community leaders.
SJSU Student Research, Scholarship, and Creative Activity (RSCA) Grant Initiative
The new Student Research, Scholarship, and Creative Activity (RSCA) Grant Initiative is replacing the former Undergraduate Research Grant (URG) program. The new initiative is for both undergraduate and graduate students and is designed to support students engaged in RSCA with a faculty mentor by providing funding for student assistantships and supplies for the student’s work or virtual conference attendance for the student. To learn more about how to apply for awards of up to $3000, visit the Office of Research website.
SJSU and CSU Student Research Competition
The long-standing annual Student Research Competition is now designated as the SJSU Student RSCA Competition. This opportunity allows graduate and undergraduate students to present their original Research, Scholarship, and Creative Activity (RSCA) and compete for selection as SJSU representatives at both SJSU’s Celebration of Research and the statewide California State University (CSU) Student Research Competition. To learn more about how to compete, visit the Office of Research website.
SJSU Grad Slam
Grad Slam at San José State University is a campus-wide competition for the best short research presentation by a graduate student. During the competition, graduate students will be judged by a panel based on their ability to successfully engage a non-specialist audience while communicating key details about their research in three minutes or less. Panelists may include SJSU staff, faculty, students, alumni, city officials, and industry professionals. To learn more about how to compete, visit the College of Graduate Studies website.
McNair Scholars Program
The McNair Scholars supports first generation, low income, or underrepresented students in their applications to doctoral programs and assists them with a research project. To learn more, visit the SJSU McNair Scholars website.