Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/education/student-resources/admitted-spartan-day.php
Title: Admitted Spartan Day
Type: HTML

Admitted Spartan Day
Welcome to the Connie L. Lurie College of Education. Our team of Student Ambassadors, Staff, and Faculty are excited to meet you on Saturday, April 18th. Join us to learn information on program pathways, as our team provides personal insight from their Lurie College experiences and answer any questions you may have. Programs include: Child and Adolescent Development (ChAD), Communicative Disorders and Sciences (CD&S), SJSU Single and Multiple Subject programs, SJSU Special Education Teaching Program, Teacher Residency Program, and Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Program.
Lurie College Spring 2026 ASD Events
Start your day by exploring our Child & Adolescent Development (ChAD), Communicative Disorders & Sciences (CD&S), Teaching Pathways & Field Experience Office (TPFE), and Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) program tables at SJSU’s Admitted Spartan Day Resource Fair, happening from 9:00am–2:00pm. There, you’ll have the chance to connect with our Student Ambassadors and learn about their experiences in our programs.
From 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM, stop by our Student Success Center Open House in SH 106 to learn more about the academic support, advising, and community resources available to you as a Lurie College student.
Then, beginning at 12:00 PM, join us for our Student Panels and Guided Tours. You’ll hear directly from current students about their experiences and have the chance to explore our learning and clinical spaces.
Student Panel Sessions begin at 12:00 PM and 1:00 PM, with tours immediately following each panel.*
You’re welcome to explore at your own pace and create your own journey, but we encourage you to connect with our students, ask questions, and imagine your future at the Connie L. Lurie College of Education.
We look forward to meeting you on Saturday, April 18th at #ASD2026!
Additional Lurie College Resources
Financial Aid Opportunities
Explore financial aid opportunities.
Student Organizations and Leadership
We have numerous opportunities for our undergraduate students to connect with their peers, develop leadership skills, organize community events, and more through our student organizations:
- Child and Adolescent Development (ChAD) Club
- Early Childhood Student-Alumni Network (ESAN)
- National Student Speech Language Hearing Association (NSSLHA)
- Counselor Education Graduate Organization (CEGO)
- American Sign Language (ASL) Club
- Institute for Regenerative Futures
- Spartan Future Teachers
- Male Educators of Color Initiative (MECI)
Meet Our Lurie College Faculty
Before you even arrive on campus, take a moment to get to know some of the faculty in your department! Explore our faculty members by department for bios and lists of recent publications.
Visit our Lurie College of Education Faculty Pages.
Child and Adolescent Development
ChAD Faculty PageCommunicative Disorders and Sciences
CD&S Faculty PageCounselor Education
EDCO Faculty PageEducational Leadership
EDLD Faculty PageSpecial Education
SPED Faculty PageTeacher Education
TED Faculty PageMeet Your ASD Department Representatives
Child & Adolescent Development (ChAD) Department
Child and Adolescent Development (ChAD) faculty members are active researchers whose work represents a broad range of interests across the discipline of child development. Be sure to attend our welcome sessions to meet with the Child and Adolescent Development Department Chair, Ravisha Mathur!
Department Chair
Ravisha Mathur, Ph.D.
Associate Professor
-
ravisha.mathur@sjsu.edu
-
408.924.3666
-
Sweeney Hall (SH) Room 201
Communicative Disorders & Sciences (CD&S) Department
Our Communicative Disorders and Sciences Department is home to dedicated and experienced faculty members. Our team provides a rigorous academic and clinical preparation to students seeking careers working with individuals with communication disorders, and their families. Be sure to attend our welcome sessions to learn about the Communicative Disorders & Sciences opportunities!
Department Chair
Pei-Tzu Tsai, Ph.D., CCC-SLP
Associate Professor
-
peitzu.tsai@sjsu.edu
-
408.924.3733
-
Sweeney Hall (SH) Room 115
Meet the Lurie College Student Success Center Team!
Our Student Success Center team believes that academic advising is a collaborative and transformative educational process where students and their advisors work jointly to develop plans for achievement of the students’ personal, academic, and professional goals. Meet the Lurie College Student Success Center team below!
| Photo | Name | Office | Contact |
|---|---|---|---|
|
Yajayra Tovar Managing Director |
Sweeney Hall 106 |
Phone: (408) 924-3395 Email: yajayra.tovar@sjsu.edu |
|
|
Loralei Zimbauer Assistant Director |
Sweeney Hall 106 |
Phone: (408) 924-4725 Email: loralei.zimbauer@sjsu.edu |
|
|
Laura Beltran Cordova Student Academic Success Specialist
|
Sweeney Hall 106 |
Phone: (408) 924-3772 |
Visit the Lurie College Student Success Center homepage to explore services including:
- Advising
- Student Resources
- Tutoring Resources
- Changing Your Major
- Adding a Minor
- Graduation
- Professional Development
- Career Support
Looking forward to meeting you at Admitted Spartan Day!
Visiting San José for ASD?
Learn of Bay Area attractions, dining options, travel tips, and entertainment highlights at our Visit San José page.
Explore Lurie College and Sweeney Hall
If you're unable to visit us on campus, you can watch this virtual tour to get an overview of our strategic priorities, academic departments, student spaces and services, and student organizations and leadership opportunities. This video was created by Child and Adolescent Development alum, Edith Urbano.
If you have any questions, please email us at luriecollege@sjsu.edu.