Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/education/student-resources/graduation.php
Title: Graduation and Commencement
Type: HTML

Graduation and Commencement
All eligible Spring and Summer 2026 graduates have been sent the Commencement RSVP email. If you have not received one by March 31, 2026, please reach out to commencement@sjsu.edu with your name and student ID.
Phone: 408-924-6521
Email: commencement@sjsu.edu
More information is available at sjsu.edu/commencement.
Grad Fest 2026
March 24 and 25, 2026
9:00 AM - 5:00 PM each day
7th Street Plaza
Open to all participating graduates!
Grad Fest is a one-stop-shop for Graduation and Commencement.
- Purchase the required Regalia for Commencement
- Pick-up graduation/commencement merch
- Gather information about Commencement
- Check in on your Application for Graduation with the Registrar/GAPE offices
- Connect with the SJSU Alumni Association
- Learn about SJSU's Career Center services
- Great deals on SJSU graduation and alumni gear
FREE Professional photography sitting (pay for photos after seeing digital proofs)
Grad Photos & Regalia
Book a FREE photo sitting today by visiting the GradImages scheduling website. Cap and gown are available to borrow at the sitting but grads are encouraged to bring stoles and masters hoods."Free photo sitting" = no payment up front. Only pay for the photos you want after seeing the digital proofs.
Learn more at the SJSU Commencement Grad Fest page.
Grad Events
Grad Cap Deocarting
Don't miss out on the chance to customize your grad cap! RSVP for this fun event today! Let us know you're coming here: Grad Cap Decorating RSVP
Celebrate with your Lurie College Community!
Come join us at Pre Commencement Celebration before you cross the stage on May 22nd, 2026!
We will be hosting a celebration to honor your accomplishments during your time here at Lurie College. Stop by before the commencement to enjoy food and beverages to cheers with your peers and Lurie Leaders as we celebrate all the hard work of the students of Lurie College.
Open to all Lurie College graduating students. Don't miss this chance to celebrate, enjoy refreshments, and take pictures with your peers, staff, and faculty!
Date: Thursday, May 22, 2026
Location: Sweeney Hall Courtyard
Time: 1:00-3:00pm
Congratulations, New Lurie College Alumni!
Congratulations to our new SJSU Lurie College of Education alumni. We have no doubt that you are prepared to be transformative educators, counselors, therapists, school and community leaders!
We would love for you to stay connected with us as you transition into your next chapters. Visit our Alumni webpage to take advantage of the many opportunities to connect with one another, stay connected with the college, and actively participate in the continued growth of the college.
If you plan to enroll in a graduate program, credential program, or doctoral program in the future, we have numerous academic opportunities available and our Student Success Center Advisors are happy to assist you with your application process.
Undergraduate Students Applying for Graduation
The online graduation application is open for students who have earned 85 units or
more. Applying for graduation is a two-step process:
- Apply for graduation online [pdf]
- Meet with an advisor to review the My Progress report for outstanding requirements.
If you have questions about the online process, please visit the Lurie College of Education Student Success Center (SH 106) to meet with an advisor.
Graduate Students Applying for MA Candidacy & Graduation
Finalizing your graduate degree is a two-step process:
Deadlines to apply vary depending on your planned graduation date. If you have questions about the process or want support with completing the forms, please visit the Lurie College of Education Student Success Center (SH 106) to meet with an advisor.
Credential Candidates Applying for Credential Certification
Upon completing the credential program, you may file for your credential with the Credential Services office.
- Download the appropriate credential checklist from the website
- Submit your complete application packet to credentials@sjsu.edu, in person, or by mail