Source: https://sjsu.edu/emergency/emergency-notification-methods.php
Title: Emergency Notification Methods
Type: HTML

Emergency Notification Methods
Emergency notifications will be distributed as quickly as possible in a manner that will likely reach the segment(s) of the on-campus community affected by the emergency. Distribution methods may include but are not limited to the following and vary depending on the nature and duration of the emergency:
Alert-SJSU
SJSU will send emergency information via text, audio and email messages to your cell phone, conventional phone and email account. Update your Alert-SJSU info and settings.
Spartan Safe
Spartan Safe is SJSU's mobile safety app with criminal activity reporting, walking escort and Safe Ride shuttle requests services, access to holistic basic needs and emotional mental wellness support services, and emergency guides. Get the app from the App Store or Google Play. Emergency notifications will also be delivered through the app in addition to AlertSJSU texts and emails.
Email/MySJSU
Updates and instructions may be sent to employees via the campus email system and to students via MySJSU.
Public Address System
SJSU's indoor public address system uses speaker telephones in all offices and instructional spaces.
Radio
SJSU may also issue live or ad-hoc recorded messages via the university radio station KSJS 90.5 FM as well as on an AM channel via short range radio transmission from University Police Department headquarters.
SJSU Emergency Info and Homepages
Updates may be posted in the "Current Alerts" section of this page as well as the SJSU homepage.
Emergency Hotline
Recorded information will be provided and regularly updated.
Personal Voicemail
Information for employees will be sent via voicemail. At the prompt, enter your mailbox number, then * and your passcode.
Non-Emergency Updates
On an ad-hoc basis, as determined by university leadership, the university may issue non-emergency, albeit urgent communications around issues concerning campus climate. This may involve anticipated or expected events or actions on campus which may disrupt the campus climate but not affect regular operations. Get the latest on the Campus Climate website.