Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/faso/types-of-aid/work-study
Title: Work-Study
Type: HTML

Work-Study
Federal Work-Study Program
The Federal Work-Study Program (FWS) allows SJSU students to gain valuable work experience while earning money to help pay for college. A focus is placed on providing community service jobs both on and off campus.
One of the advantages of the FWS is that earnings are excluded when re-applying for financial aid. Thus, FWS earnings do not affect future financial aid eligibility. However, FWS earnings are taxable. The minimum work-study award is $5,000.
Who is Eligible?
Students who have unmet financial need based on their FAFSA will be considered for Federal Work Study.
Students may also request to have loans converted to Federal work-study, but must have financial need as determined by the FAFSA to be eligible. Submit the Student Information Update Form to the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office to request loan conversion.
Eligibility does not guarantee employment. Actual employment is contingent upon availability of jobs, skill level, work hours, etc.
How to Find Jobs
Jobs are available with on-campus employers such as University Housing Services, Student Union, Event Center, and various academic and administrative offices. Work-study jobs are also available off-campus with school districts, social service agencies, city and county government, etc.
- Visit the Career Center for job listings. It is important to know that if you do not work an authorized work-study job, you will not receive any portion of your FWS award.
- Locate advertised FWS jobs (via the Internet or hard-copy job listings)
- Call the specified employers and schedule a job interview
- Print your Financial Aid Award Notice from MySJSU and bring it with you to each job interview. Print your award notice by accessing: MySJSU>Self Service>Student Center> under Finances, select "View Financial Aid" and click on the appropriate aid year.
Summer Federal Work-Study
Students planning to continue in the Federal Work-Study (FWS) program after May 22nd must first obtain a Summer FWS Clearance. This clearance is required to work as a federal work study student during the months of June, July, and August.
To apply for summer clearance, you must:
- Complete the Summer Federal Work-Study Allocation Application.
- Finalize your 2026/2027 financial aid application (submit your FAFSA and all requested verification documents).
- Be determined to have unmet financial need for the 2026/2027 academic year.
Note: You do not have to be enrolled in summer classes to be eligible, but you must have been enrolled during the 25/26 academic year and be registered for the upcoming Fall 2026 semester.
Frequently Asked Questions
Why do I need a Summer Federal Work-Study Clearance?
The summer clearance is used to determine and inform students of their eligibility for summer federal work-study. To obtain a clearance, students must first complete and submit the Summer Federal Work-Study application to the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office.
What if I don't plan on working as a Federal Work-Study student over the summer?
Only students who plan on working under the Federal Work-Study Program need apply for a summer clearance by submitting the Summer Federal Work-Study application to the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office. Students who do not plan on working will not have to apply.
What will happen if I do not submit the Summer Federal Work-Study form, or do not receive a summer clearance?
You will not be able to work as a Federal Work-Study student during the summer.