Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/getinvolved/campus-events/homecoming.php
Title: Homecoming 2026
Type: HTML

Homecoming 2026
Homecoming at SJSU
Homecoming brings together current students, faculty, staff, and alums in celebration of Spartan Pride at San José State University! Over the years, Homecoming has grown into a beloved annual tradition, featuring a week of spirited events that showcase the best of Spartan life—school pride, community, and connection.
Be sure to bring your SJSU Tower ID and have the SJSU Sammy App ready to check in at every event.
Go Spartans! 💙💛
All Week
Department Door Decorating Competition
SJSU departments across campus will be getting into the Spartan Spirit and decorating their office doors with neon colors, swag, and decorations! More details will be posted here as we approach Homecoming week.
Sign up to participate!
RSO Social Media Video Competition
SJSU Recognized Student Organizations across campus compete in a social media video competition to celebrate their organization, SJSU, and the homecoming theme for a monetary prize. Open to ALL RSOs, Fraternity & Sorority Chapters, and other Student Groups
Sign up to participate!
Monday, October 5th
Taste of the Bay
12 pm -3 pmm, 7th Street Plaza
Join us for our 4th annual Taste of the Bay food festival this Homecoming – where campus pride meets local flavor with tasty eats, refreshing sips, and lively entertainment.
Tuesday, October 6th
Block Party
4 pm - 7 pm, 7th Street Plaza
It’s Homecoming Week, and we are inviting the SJSU community to step into the glow
of Spartan City Lights at our 6th Annual Homecoming Block Party! To get us into the
Spartan Spirit, we’re transforming 7th Street Plaza into a vibrant cityscape of food,
fun, and community! Enjoy delicious bites and soak up the urban vibes at our activity
stations featuring games, crafts, and interactive fun. Celebrate Homecoming under
the Spartan City Lights with friends, food, and nonstop Spartan spirit! See you at
the Block Party!
Wednesday, October 7th
Veterans Day Celebration
11:30 am -1:30 pmm, 7th Street Plaza
Join us for San José State University’s annual Veterans Day Celebration, a campus and community event honoring our veteran students, staff, faculty, and alums. The celebration begins with a short ceremony on the West Patio, followed by a resource fair and student car show along 7th Street Plaza. This event brings together campus departments, community partners, and students to connect, learn, and celebrate the contributions of our veteran community.
Thursday, October 8th
19th Annual Fire on the Fountain
4:00 pm -9:00 pmm, Tower Lawn
Rally together at SJSU’s hottest tradition, the 18th Annual Fire on the Fountain!
Come rally with your fellow Spartans and enjoy free food, free swag, an inflatable
challenge course, games, and entertainment from 5 pm-9 pm on Tower Lawn. Enjoy the
spectacular fire show, fireworks, and pep rally featuring SJSU football players and
cheer squad!
RSOs Sign Up to Table at FOF!
Alumni Social
5:30 pm - 8:00 pm, Smith/Carlos Lawn
Come back to campus and join us for a social that includes food, drink, entertainment, lawn games, and SJSU giveaways. All graduation years are welcome to attend.
Saturday, October 10th
Alumni Tailgate
TBD, CEFCU Stadium
Join us before the game to mix and mingle with fellow SJSU Alumni.
Homecoming Game: SJSU vs Wyoming
Time TBD, CEFCU Stadium
Halftime: Meet the Homecoming Court and Royalty
Representing San José State University as Homecoming Royalty is truly an exhilarating experience and one of the highest distinctions received by any student. The Homecoming Court is composed of six Spartans, with two Royalty winners (regardless of gender).
All events are wheelchair accessible. For more information or additional accessibility needs, please get in touch with Student Involvement at getinvolved@sjsu.edu.