Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/giving/faq/index.php
Title: Frequently Asked Questions
Type: HTML

Frequently Asked Questions
What is a donation?
A charitable contribution is a donation or gift to, or for the use of, a qualified organization. It is voluntary and is made without getting or expecting to get anything of equal value. (IRS Publication 526)
What is not considered a donation?
If the donor gets any goods or services in return for their contribution it is not a donation. Example: A donor gives $200 in exchange for an event ticket with a fair market value of $75. The donor’s tax deduction is $125.
Is the value of a person's or organization's time or service considered a charitable contribution?
If an individual performs compensable work for a department, they may request payment for their services. After they accept the payment, if they’d like, they may make a donation to the college or a specific department.
How do I make a donation?
There are several ways to make a gift. Visit our How to Give page to learn more.
Can I make a gift using a credit or debit card?
Credit and debit cards are accepted in a safe and secure online environment. We accept Visa, MasterCard, and American Express.
If I want to make a gift by check, where do I mail my donation?
To mail a donation or pledge payment, please send your check to:
Tower Foundation
San José State University
One Washington Square
San José, CA 95192-0183
The check should be made payable to "Tower Foundation of SJSU".
Please make sure to include the extended zip (last four digits) in the address to ensure your donation is delivered to the gift processing office.
Do you accept gifts from a Donor Advised Fund?
Yes, we accept gifts from Donor Advised Funds (DAF). You can recommend a grant or recurring grants to make an immediate impact, or use your fund as a tool for future charitable gifts.
The Tower Foundation Tax ID is 83-0403915.
A step-by-step guide is available on our DAF page.
How do I make a gift of stock?
Complete and submit the Stock Gift Transfer Letter [pdf] to your broker to initiate the transfer of securities to RBC Wealth Management.
After completing the form, please email a copy to Advancement Services, at advancement@sjsu.edu, so that your donation is designated accordingly and you are acknowledged for your contribution.
What are matching gifts?
Many employers offer matching gift programs. This means they’ll match your charitable donations—doubling or sometimes even tripling your impact! Please contact your company’s HR department to verify the status of your company’s matching gift program. Some companies also match gifts by retirees and/or spouses.
How do I make Qualified Charitable Distributions from my IRA?
A Qualified Charitable Distribution (QCD) is a tax-efficient way for individuals who are age 70 ½ or older to make gifts directly from their Individual Retirement Account (IRA).
QCDs can count towards satisfying an individual’s Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) for the year, which is the minimum amount that an individual must withdraw from their IRA each year once they reach age 73.
Visit our QCD page to learn more.
How do I make a gift from a 401(k) or 403(b) account?
Roll over money from your 401(k) or 403(b) account into an IRA and then make your
QCD.
Visit our QCD page to learn more.
How do I make a gift from a pension plan?
The IRS allows you to gift a certain amount each year without incurring gift tax. Consult with a financial advisor for specifics.
How do I add San José State University to my estate plans?
Discover ways to give back through Planned Giving at San José State.
If you’ve already created a will and included a gift to SJSU, please take a moment to fill out this form so we can say thank you and welcome you to the Heritage Society.
How do I make a gift of retirement fund assets as an estate gift?
Request and complete a beneficiary designation form from your plan administrator.
For more information, please visit our Planned Giving page.
How do I make a non-monetary contribution?
Non-monetary contributions, also known as gift-in-kind donations, are nonfinancial donations, typically of goods or services.
If you would like to make a gift-in-kind donation, please contact our Advancement Services Team for more information. They can be reached by email at advservices@sjsu.edu or by phone at 408-924-1799.
How do I update my contact information?
All you need to do is fill out this form, and we will update your contact information. Thank you for letting us know about your updates!