Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/giving/impact-of-giving/index.php
Title: Give to SJSU
Type: HTML

How Gifts Make a Difference
Sabina Ruiz
’23 Accounting
“Five little people and a teen know meas mom and their guide. Here at SJSU, I see the professors as my guides. Being a mom makes me appreciate just how amazing they are and how much they put into our education. When I received my scholarship, it was more than financial support; it was an encouragement. It meant I was being seen, and I really mattered. My scholarship has helped change the trajectory of my story to one of triumph and wins. I am beyond gratefuland proud to be part of SJSU.”
Caleb Dowdell
’23 Pictorial Arts
“My scholarship allowed me to challenge myself in visual art, graphic design, and other aspects of the arts that I love, like music and theater. I love to sing and perform and have had a blast joining SJSU’s jazz singing class. Receiving a scholarship allowed me to afford to live on campus and form tight-knit circles in the dorms, campus clubs, and local open mic events. I have grown so much at SJSU and have had the time of my life.”
Jody Connolly
’23 Nursing
“Receiving a scholarship had a monumental impact on me and my family during my time at The Valley Foundation School of Nursing. As a working mother, this scholarship has lightened my financial burden tremendously and allowed me to truly focus on the most important things–my nursing education and my family. I am incredibly grateful to the donors who give back to help Nursing students pursue their dreams.”
Early Childhood Education: The Ultimate Investment
Through the Morgan Family Foundation, Becky and her husband Jim have generously supported numerous initiatives at San José State University, including scholarships for future educators and the Center for Reaching and Teaching the Whole Child. Their investment reflects a belief in the transformative power of early education, not only for children but also for society as a whole. By focusing on training diverse, well-prepared educators, Becky aims to ensure that future generations have the support they need to succeed, creating a ripple effect of positive change in communities. Her philanthropy is a testament to the lifelong value she places on education as the ultimate investment in a better future.
Harry Edwards' 55-Year Promise
San José State University alumnus, renowned sports sociologist and professor emeritus of UC Berkeley Harry Edwards reached a milestone of giving to SJSU that resonates with his contributions to society — a legacy that formalizes a decades-long promise to former SJSU President Robert Clark.
Leo Cortez and the Latino Alumni Network (LAN)
“We wanted to make a difference in the community and help Latino students achieve their dreams of a college education. Through community service, networking, and professional development we have been able to increase our membership and donations to endow a scholarship. We are the first network to do this, and we are proud of our accomplishment. I hope that this endowment will continue to grow and change students' lives through the scholars program. I will continue to push myself and the SJSU LAN board to accomplish bigger and greater things. The endowment was just one. There is definitely more to come.”
Betty (Pat) and Arm Hanzad were among San Jose State University’s most devoted supporters. Arm mentored SJSU athletes after retiring from his role in the Alum Rock School District. Pat co-founded the Women’s Walk for Sparta, raising funds for women’s sports, and helped establish the College of Education Alumni Board. She also initiated the Walk for Education, which funded a historic one-room schoolhouse at History San Jose. Pat and Arm were beloved surrogate parents to many student athletes and avid supporters of SJSU sports. Their dedication to SJSU was truly remarkable.
Recognizing Major Gifts
Scott Lefaver
Scott Lefaver ’68, ’72 MUP, has championed the Urban and Regional Planning program for 50 years, since he graduated with the first cohort of master’s in urban planning students. A $1 million gift from Lefaver created the first-ever endowed professorship in the College of Social Sciences for the Advanced Certificate Program in Real Estate Development (CRED). Endowed professorships generate funds that faculty can use for research, creative and scholarly activities.