Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/giving/how-to-give/index.php
Title: How to Give
Type: HTML

How to Give
Unlock Greater Possibilities for SJSU Students
Every gift provides more opportunities to educate students, make discoveries, and serve the public. There are so many ways to support SJSU — and even more possibilities to create a better future for our university, our region, and our world.
Giving Methods
Is there a department, program, student service, scholarship or enrichment opportunity for students that holds special meaning for you? This is your opportunity as a staff or faculty member to make a real difference in what inspires you at SJSU.
The SJSU Alumni Association has the largest alumni-supported scholarship program in the California State University system.
You’ve guided your child in their educational journey. Now, help us make that same journey possible for all students. Help New Student and Family Programs provide opportunities for parent and family members to feel more connected to campus and to understand their vital role in supporting their students.
Become a Recurring Donor
Recurring gifts offer you the ability to provide your favorite SJSU scholarship or program with dependable support throughout the year. By determining the amount, frequency (monthly or quarterly) and total number of payments, you are able to conveniently build a significant contribution through smaller installments. Your recurring gift may be changed or discontinued by contacting University Advancement at 408-924-1799.
Why We Give
Jim Dunaway, ’67 Teaching Credential, worked as an industrial engineer before coming to San José, where he realized teaching was his true calling. The Dunaways established a charitable remainder trust that will create endowed scholarships and awards for future math teachers at San José State. “I hope that our scholarship recipients really love what they are doing and are encouraged to stay within the profession,” says Louise Dunaway. “We need good teachers — we need dedicated people. I hope that the students feel validated for all their efforts and hard work.”