Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/giving/areas-to-support/lucas-college-and-graduate-school-of-business/index.php
Title: Lucas College and Graduate School of Business
Type: HTML

Lucas College and Graduate School of Business
At the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business, we are driven by a powerful vision—to provide transformative opportunities for our diverse student body. With 47% of our students being first-generation and 75% coming from minority backgrounds, we are committed to providing the education, experiences, and support needed to propel them into high-impact, high-paying careers.
The industry and our stakeholders recognize our commitment to empowering students
to break barriers and reach their highest potential. As a result, our programs consistently
rank among the best in the region and our nation. Our undergraduate business program
is #2 among all California State Universities and in the top 20 in California (U.S.
News & World Report 2024). Our MBA program is among the top 50 nationally (Poets&Quants
2024, Fortune 2024) and second among public universities in California (Poets&Quants
2024). The Wall Street Journal further recognizes our impact by ranking Lucas #1 for
high-paying jobs in accounting, #2 in marketing, and among the top 20 for management
consulting salaries among public universities.
While we are proud of our graduates' success, we know that it takes more than a rigorous academic curriculum to open these doors; it takes real-world immersive experiences, support systems, and opportunities for growth. It is your partnership which makes this possible—creating scholarships, expanding academic offerings, enhancing facilities, and providing mentorships that inspire and empower our students to lead, innovate, and make a positive difference.
Every gift is an investment in our students' futures and the transformative power
of education. Thank you for considering this chance to shape the next generation of
leaders.
With sincere appreciation,
Dean, Lucas College and Graduate School of Business
Find out more:
Sabra Diridon
Executive Director of Development
408-924-1410