Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/giving/areas-to-support/index.php
Title: Areas to Support
Type: HTML

Areas to Support
SJSU students are the future leaders in healthcare, tech, education, engineering, the arts and research in Silicon Valley and beyond. With the support of alumni, parents, associates, corporations, foundations, and others in the Spartan community, SJSU students can follow their passions and discover their “why” at SJSU. Here you will find the various areas where your philanthropic contribution can propel our students to success.
Colleges
Additional Opportunities
SJSU's recently-launched SpartUp Incubator provides a web of support for the Spartan Entrepreneur, our Spartaneur, along the startup journey – from idea, through prototype, to planning and fundraising.
Since 1873, the San José State University Alumni Association has endeavored to connect graduates to their alma mater and each other, while adding value to the SJSU degree.
SJSU is proud to be the the Silicon Valley’s public university. We believe what happens in Silicon Valley changes the world, and we are the university that is changing Silicon Valley. Help SJSU be better equipped to prepare students to thrive in the global heart of innovation by supporting programs and infrastructure for new campus spaces.
Gifts to the King Library allow us to enhance services and resources in support of research, teaching, and learning, to adopt emerging technologies, and to lead the way in forging partnerships between SJSU, the City of San José, and the greater Silicon Valley — all helping to enrich the learning experience and deepen community engagement.
The Timpany Center’s mission is to provide, through multi-agency involvement and San José State University student service learning, inclusive aquatic and land-based activities that target the promotion of physical health and wellness in individuals with disabilities, obesity, and/or advanced age from the greater Santa Clara County community.
The Hammer Theatre Center is a unique performing arts facility that serves as a nexus between the university and the community, San Jose and the Bay Area, and local and global talent. It produces and presents innovative programming that reflects Silicon Valley’s culture of creativity, diversity, and technology. Audiences are invited to experience the beauty, spontaneity and human connection made possible through live performances.