Source: https://library.sjsu.edu/giving-library
Title: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library: Giving to the Library: Giving to the Library
Type: HTML

Opened in 2003, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library is a unique space that offers San José State University students, faculty, and staff and the San José community a broad range of resources and services to support a lifetime of learning and engagement. It is the first library in the nation to integrate the services and collections ofa major university and a public library. Your support enables us to meet the evolving needs of those who use the library every day. Gifts to the King Library allow us to enhance services and resources in support of research, teaching, and learning, to adopt emerging technologies, and to lead the way in forging partnerships between SJSU, the City of San José, and the greater Silicon Valley — all helping to enrich the learning experience and deepen community engagement.
Ways to Give
Corporations & Foundations
Partner with SJSU King Library to support the resources, services and programs of this unique university and public library. For information about making a corporate or foundation gift, e-mail or call Sela Gaglia, Executive Director of Corporate & Foundation Relations, at sela.gaglia@sjsu.edu or (408) 924-7033.
Legacy Giving
Make a lasting gift to the SJSU King Library to honor someone, build a legacy, or ensure continued support. Learn more about giving gifts in your will, gifts that pay you income or reduce taxes, and more. For inquiries, e-mail or call Kendra Livingston, JD,Senior Director of Planned Giving at 408-924-1123, or k.livingston@sjsu.edu.
Endowments
Create an endowment and provide a lifetime of support for SJSU King Library, ensuring the growth of our collections, library staff and services. View our current endowments. For more information, e-mail the Tower Foundation at towerfoundation@sjsu.edu.
Highlighted Program Support
Dean's Fund
Contributions to the Dean's Fund can be used immediately to finance events, programs, giveaways, professional development, technology purchases, and more. Your gift provides the support needed to meet the ongoing needs of students and faculty to enhance their learning experiences and engagement with the King Library.
NEH Challenge Grant: Digital Humanities Center
The King Library, in collaboration with the College of Humanities & Arts, received a National Endowment for the Humanities Challenge Grant to establish a Digital Humanities Center in the library. Your gift to this fund will be matched dollar for dollar by NEH.
Library Research Scholars Program
Contributions to the Library Research Scholars Program support research scholars. Using King Library's collection, each student accepted into this program will be given a paid opportunity to conduct original research in the library on an hourly basis, while participating in a year-long program.