Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/global/explore/index.php
Title: Explore San Jose State University
Type: HTML

Explore SJSU
Picture yourself in the heart of Silicon Valley with an education at San José State University. As a student, you will enjoy access to top global companies, have endless career prospects and with the help of our advisors, you’ll find yourself comfortable in your new home.
Why SJSU
SJSU provides you with a number of advantages, setting it apart and guaranteeing success. Our Silicon Valley location and connections provide the leverage and training and place you in the innovation hub. With a diverse student and faculty community, we proudly hold the top spot as the #1 public university in the West, recognized for its exceptional value.
School Rankings
In the U.S. News and World Report’s 2024 Best Colleges rankings, the college was ranked
- Top 20 Best Undergraduate Business Programs among public universities in California,
- #3 Campus Ethnic Diversity Public Universities - West
- #4 Data Science Salaries for Grads - Public Universities
- #6 Best Undergraduate Engineering Program - Non-Doctorate - National Ranking
- #7 Top Performers for Social Mobility - Regional Ranking - West
SJSU was also recognized by the Wall Street Journal as the #1 public university in the nation for accounting salaries for graduates and #2 for marketing.
Silicon Valley Advantage
Many of the world’s top companies are based in Silicon Valley, giving you an edge when it comes to networking, learning from industry experts, and exploring entrepreneurship. Enjoy the benefits that come with learning at SJSU.
Career Prospects
Explore your options for employment as an international student and recent graduate at SJSU.
On-Campus Employment
All F-1 students are eligible for on-campus employment, which can help financially and enhance your SJSU experience. We provide the information and support you need to obtain employment on campus.
Your Community
We are excited to welcome you into the San José State community, where you will have the chance to get involved in clubs and student organizations and create your own personal connections. Get to know our community and all it has to offer.
Housing
SJSU offers a variety of housing options for our international students, including the International House (iHouse), which accepts both international and domestic students, as well as other university housing options. The iHouse is considered on-campus housing and is an option for incoming freshmen. University Housing Brochure