Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/global/explore/silicon-valley-advantage.php
Title: Silicon Valley Advantage
Type: HTML

Silicon Valley Advantage
San José State University is Silicon Valley’s leading source of graduates in education, engineering, computer science, and business. Take advantage of our unbeatable location and an education taught by faculty who bring real-world experience from Silicon Valley’s top companies. At SJSU, you’ll find extensive networking opportunities to help you build the career you’ve been working toward.
Why Silicon Valley?
Silicon Valley is a global hub for technology, innovation, and startups, and many of the world’s leading companies are headquartered in the region. San José State University ranks #1 in the U.S. for “Most Silicon Valley Hires” (Business Insider). Many of our students go on to work with top companies such as Apple, Adobe, Meta, and Google. Join a diverse and growing workforce in one of the most dynamic regions in the world.
Our Programs
At SJSU, our programs are as innovative as our location. We empower entrepreneurs and diverse thinkers to apply their education and knowledge to solve real-world challenges.
The SpartUp Incubator
Combining SJSU Research & Innovation, university programs, and community organizations, the SpartUp Incubator supports student entrepreneurs throughout every stage of the startup journey.
Silicon Valley Innovation Challenge
Inspire others and challenge your ideas by entering the Silicon Valley Innovation Challenge (SVIC). Designed to cultivate a collaborative space for entrepreneurs, SVIC offers cash prizes, mentorship, and valuable networking opportunities.
SAVi Idealab
The SAVi Idealab is a hub for sharing and publishing theories, technological or geographic mathematical frameworks, and applications of Spatial Analytics and Visualization. Explore topics such as geographic information science and systems, remote sensing, urban and regional planning, cartography, environmental modeling, geographic artificial intelligence, and related fields.
Our Impact
San José State University is a key feeder school for Silicon Valley employers. Many graduates earn competitive early-career salaries that are often higher than national averages, reflecting the strong demand for SJSU talent in the region.
Location
The location of San Jose State University in California.
Research
San José State University’s research opportunities have grown exponentially in the last few years. The SpartUp incubator has grown with 413 members and $73 million in economic impact from the Silicon Valley Small Business Development Center. To get involved, check out some of the research opportunities in the departments below.
Research Groups in each Department
- Biological Sciences
- Chemistry
- Computer Science
- Geology
- Mathematics and Statistic
- Meteorology and Climate Science
- Marine Science and MLML
- Physics and Astronomy
University Connections in Silicon Valley
San José State University is Silicon Valley’s number one source of graduates in education, engineering, computer science, and business. Our connections enable students to network with some of the top companies in the world, including Adobe, Amazon, Cisco Systems, Google, IBM, Intel, Lockheed Martin, Microsoft, Oracle, Salesforce, and many more.
Sameer Saran
Sameer Saran, CEO and founder of Parkstash is a Computer Engineering alumnus who came to the U.S. as an international student and is now a successful entrepreneur in the valley. Hear why Sameer chose SJSU to gain the skills that would launch his career in Silicon Valley.
Biotechnology Student
Students from the Masters of Biotechnology Program at San Jose State University share their experiences about how the program helped them step out of the lab to get them job-ready for the fast-paced Biotech Industry.
Why Engineering SJSU
SJSU offers industry-aligned engineering degrees in Artificial Intelligence, Smart Sustainable Energy Systems, Data Science, Cloud and Mobile, and Enterprise Technologies. See if you qualify.
Stats
- SJSU has been ranked among the top salaries for graduates by the Wall Street Journal. SJSU is: #1 for Accounting, #2 for Marketing, #4 for Data Science, #5 for Engineering, #6 for Software Development.