Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/global/about.php
Title: San Jose State University - Global Meet The Team
Type: HTML

Meet The Team
International Recruitment and Partnerships (IRP) recruits international undergraduate (Freshmen and Transfer), graduate, and non-degree students for SJSU worldwide. To bring the best international students to campus, IRP visits students and parents, answers inquiries, and notifies students of application and admission processes unique to them. The office also develops partnerships with universities abroad to bring their students to SJSU through articulation and other agreements.
IRP Team
Alan Wong Ph.D
Senior Director, Business Development & Global Partnership
Alan is a multifaceted professional, currently holding the roles of Senior Director of Business Development and Global Partnerships.
Alan made significant strides as a technologist and team manager at Intel Corporation. Alan's expertise was recognized on an international scale as he represented Intel in the Advanced Metrology Advisory Group of International SEMATECH, a semiconductor industry consortium. Notably, he holds nine U.S. patents in the critical field of overlay and dimension metrology.
Beyond his impressive professional accomplishments, Alan is a passionate advocate for diversity and inclusion, and his dedication to bridging communities and fostering inclusivity shines through his impactful leadership.
Adiba Shahjahan
Associate Director, International Recruitment and Partnerships
Professional and Global Engagement
Languages: Bangla, Hindi, Urdu, English
Adiba Shahjahan is a dynamic professional with 10+ years of experience in the field of international education. With a passion for international education and a deep understanding of the transformative power of cross-cultural experience, Adiba has dedicated her career to connecting students with exceptional educational opportunities.
Adiba pursued her higher education in the United States, earning a Bachelor’s Degree in Speech and Communication Studies (Rhetoric) and a Master’s Degree in Integrated Marketing Communication from Edinboro University of Pennsylvania. Adiba has worked in both private and public universities in her previous roles. She loves the diversity, international cuisine, year-round sunny weather, and beautiful nature in Northern California. Currently, in her role, Adiba serves as the work lead for international recruitment activities all over the world. She oversees all international recruitment activities, international student inquiries, and agency and partnership inquiries.
Jiale He
International Recruitment Specialist
Professional and Global Engagement
Languages: Mandarin and English
Jiale He was born and raised in China. She has always longed to see the larger world, to receive a multicultural education, and to develop an international perspective since she was a child. After graduating from the Graduate School of Education at the University of Pennsylvania in 2013, she has been working in the education field. Previously, she worked as a college counselor in private learning centers until she joined SJSU in 2017.
She is dedicated to serving and helping more students achieve their academic pursuits and realize their life goals by studying in the United States. One of her favorite quotes about education is, “Education is the passport to the future, for tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.”
Victoria Pham
International Recruitment Advisor
Professional and Global Engagement
Languages: English and Vietnamese
Victoria is originally from Vietnam and now calls California her home. She earned her Master’s degree in International Education Management from Middlebury Institute of International Studies. She has a passion for international education, and in her current role at SJSU, Victoria serves as the point of contact for recruitment partners. She also works closely with school counselors and prospective students to provide admission advising and application assistance.
Victoria has a great love for food and travel. When not working, she enjoys cooking, checking out dining spots and coffee shops in the area, going on trips with friends and family, or simply spending time cuddling her son and fur babies.
Kathleen Fabricius Tyson
International Recruitment Specialist
Professional and Global Engagement
Languages: English and Danish
Kathleen is a California native who has always been passionate about international education and creating opportunities for cross-cultural experience. She holds a Master’s degree in International Education from the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in Monterey, California. Kathleen has also spent over five years living and working in Denmark, where she worked in international student services and global mobility. In her role as International Recruitment Specialist, Kathleen spends a lot of her time working directly with prospective students during international recruitment trips and is dedicated to fostering an inclusive and welcoming experience for all students.
In her free time, Kathleen loves making sourdough bread and pizza, hiking and camping, building Legos, and has traveled to over 45 countries.
Momina Manzoor
International Marketing Specialist
Professional and Global Engagement
Languages: English, Urdu, Arabic, Hindi
Momina moved to the United States from Pakistan five years ago and loves living in the heart of Silicon Valley; it is nothing short of a dream come true. Before joining the IRP team, she pursued a master’s degree in Digital Marketing from Johns Hopkins University on a Fulbright Scholarship. She thrives in the vibrant ecosystem of academia and enjoys collaborating with students, faculty, and staff to amplify and advertise their remarkable work and achievements.
In her free time, she cherishes spending time with her four-year-old and exploring the natural beauty and cultural diversity the Bay Area has to offer. She does not enjoy cooking and is always up for take-outs.
Cindy Tang
International Marketing Specialist
Professional and Global Engagement
Languages: Mandarin and English
Cindy was born in southwest China and grew up in east China. She holds a Master’s degree in Mass Communication from the University of Florida in Gainesville. She has lived in San José for more than ten years and has been with SJSU for over five years. Cindy enjoys the culture and climate here in Silicon Valley and is dedicated to utilizing her marketing skill sets to serve the international education sector.
In her free time, Cindy likes to spend time with family and friends, hiking, playing Mahjong, and watching movies.
Country Coordinator - India
Aditya Sawant
India Country Coordinator
aditya.sawant@sjsu.edu
Aditya Sawant born and raised in Mumbai. He has over 8 years of work experience, with four years of work experience in education. During his professional journey he had the privilege of working with both K-12 students and postgraduate segments, making his experience in education incredibly fulfilling. He is always eager to inspire and empower young minds to reach their full potential.
Apart from his work, he is a foodie and enjoy exploring different Indian cuisines. Cooking is another passion of his and he loves experimenting with various flavours and recipes.
He also enjoy going for bike rides and experiencing the freedom of the open road. He is a dedicated professional with love for food and adventure.
Karuna Vishwakarma
With over 15 years in education and training marketing, Karuna specializes in building
meaningful connections. She has played pivotal roles in student interaction and client
relations, driving success through effective communication. Her passion lies at the
intersection of education and marketing, where she excels in creating innovative strategies
that resonate with diverse audiences, contributing to the growth of
educational initiatives. Committed to excellence, she brings industry knowledge, a
track record of successful collaborations, and enthusiasm to positively impact the
evolving landscape of education and training.