Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/global/explore/why-sjsu.php
Title: Why Choose San Jose State University
Type: HTML

Why SJSU
Recognized as the leader of graduates entering the Silicon Valley workforce, SJSU offers the opportunity to connect directly with some of the world's leading companies. Our students are creative, diverse, and ready to create change locally and globally.
Location
An entryway toward one of the most groundbreaking cities in the world, SJSU opens the door to a new life in Silicon Valley. San José is a city with excellent public transport, international cuisine, and an abundance of opportunity. SJSU is located an hour south of San Francisco, an hour north of Monterey Bay, and 45 minutes from Santa Cruz.
Diversity
At SJSU, the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Social Justice (ODEI SJ) is dedicated to the standards of inclusive excellence, which view San Jose State's mission of academic excellence as inseparable from our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Diversity is who we are. Both our student body and faculty come from over 100 different countries and backgrounds that exemplify what it means to be a Spartan.
Diversity by the numbers: Staff and Faculty
- Over 30% of our faculty and staff identify as Asian.
- Over 20% of our faculty and staff identify as Hispanic.
- 53% of our teacher assistants, graduate assistants, and instructional student assistants identify as female, and over 59% of our student assistants identify as female as well.
Diversity by the numbers: Student body
- 36% of our students identify as Asian
- 28% of our students identify as Hispanic
- SJSU is the 10th most diverse campus in the US
Affordability
- San José State University is the #1 public university in the West for best value, according to the U.S. News and World Report’s 2024 Best Colleges rankings.
- Ranks #17 in the U.S. of colleges with the “Best Return on Investment.” (BestColleges)
Wondering how much your degree could cost you? Check out our Net Price Calculator for an estimate.
Research and New Facilities
Interdisciplinary Science Building (ISB)
Transforming the way San José State University does research and science, the Interdisciplinary Science Building (ISB) serves as a focal point for groundbreaking research and learning at SJSU. This brand-new state-of-the-art teaching facility will house the College of Science, biomedical research and teaching space, the Department of Applied Data Science—part of the College of Professional and Global Education, and the nationally acclaimed Wildfire Interdisciplinary Research Center.
Spartan Recreation Building
Embrace a healthy lifestyle, engage with other students, and enjoy outdoor adventures with the new Spartan Recreation Building. Spartan Recreation offers students the chance to participate in outdoor adventures like hiking, camping, surfing, rock climbing, mountain biking, and more.
Student Stories
“I found out that SJSU’s engineering program was on par with Stanford and Berkeley, being one of the top three engineering schools on the West Coast. I found San José State University, fell in love with it straight away, and transferred.” Engyin Pwint Aung, Biomedical Engineering Alum, International Transfer Student, Burma Myanmar
Testimonials
“I thought, ‘Let's choose a university which can give me an experience where I can live and breathe in a startup culture and believe it or not, San José State University just made the perfect choice.” Sameer Saran, CEO and Founder of Parkstash, Master’s in Computer Engineering 2018
SJSU has truly become my second home - a place where I have found lifelong friends and mentors. SJSU’s proximity to the Tech industry has opened doors to countless opportunities for me. Just yesterday, I had the privilege of networking with over 30 CEOs at a conference. After that, I went hiking to enjoy the breathtaking coastal views of the Bay Area.
Nithin Reddy, M.S. Electrical Engineering
Specialization in Quantum Computing, Dec 2023
SJSU has offered me many academic and professional opportunities through its career programs and professional societies on campus. I’ve never felt so empowered and motivated by the dynamic campus culture to strive for excellence continually.
Engyin A, B.S. Biomedical Engineering
Class of 2022, Originally from Myanmar