Source: http://www.sjsu.edu/hammertheatre
Title: Hammer Theatre Center
Type: HTML

WHAT’S COMING UP
Center for Literary Arts presents
Kim Addonizio
A new volume by acclaimed poet Kim Addonizio, whose work is known for its streetwise, unflinching explorations of love, lust, and mortality.
Set in locations from dive bars to Montparnasse Cemetery, from an ancient Greek temple to a tourist shop in Assisi, Exit Opera explores the ever-vexing issues of time, mortality, love, and loss, and considers the roles of art and human connection. Whatever their nominal subject—jazz, zombies, Buddhism, Siberian tigers—these poems make for a compelling mix of humor and pain, difficulty and solace. In a nod to Keats, one of the many fellow travelers in these poems, Addonizio invites us to “[inscribe] a few verses on whatever water / you can find” and assures readers that they are not alone in navigating the challenges and changes of mortal life.
SJSU Theatre presents
Kingdom of Cards
What happens when a kingdom built on rigid rules and fragile power collides with the forces of laughter, desire, and rebellion?
Originally penned in 1933 by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, Kingdom of Cards is a darkly whimsical and poetic satire that challenges authoritarianism, blind conformity, and materialistic greed. In this bold new adaptation, Sukanya Chakrabarti reimagines Tagore’s allegory through a contemporary lens, fusing magic realism with urgent political commentary. Featuring the talents of student artists and community voices, and enriched by the evocative strains of Rabindrasangeet (Tagore’s own musical tradition), this production invites audiences to question systems of control—and rediscover the power of imagination, resistance, and the human spirit.
SJSU School of Music presents
Hildegard Festival featuring Andrea Ramsey’s Suffrage Cantata
The San José State University Choraliers and Concert Choir in collaboration with Monta Vista High School Choirs present the Bay Area premier of Andrea Ramsey’s powerful Suffrage Cantata featuring narrator Simone Ledward-Boseman. Works by Vittoria Aleotti, Moira Bosch, and Elaine Hagenberg among others, as well as projections and narration will guide audience members on a journey that tells our nation’s authentic story of struggle and resilience in the fight for gender rights.
Arrive early to attend the pre-concert talk and mingle with the suffragettes. Donations throughout the evening will go to Young Women’s Freedom Center in Santa Clara County.
Looking for a way to contribute?
Your support is vital to assist us in bringing the finest local, national and internationally recognized artists and acts to our stage
as well as funding important educational initiatives that serve both SJSU students and local K-12 schools.
We hope you will consider supporting by making a gift of any amount of your choosing.
Thank you for embracing our programming and sharing your love of live performances with those closest to you.
MISSION:
A distinctive, high-quality, San Jose State University-operated performance venue in the heart of downtown San Jose; presenting work by and representative of San Jose State University and serving the community through high-quality programming expressive of the unique characteristics and diverse cultures that comprise the greater Silicon Valley.