Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/hspm/about-us/programs/learning-outcomes.php
Title: Program Learning Outcomes
Type: HTML

Program Learning Outcomes
The Department of Hospitality, Tourism, and Event Management offers a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (B.S. B.A) degree with a concentration in Hospitality, Tourism & Event Management. Upon completion of the degree requirements, students will be able:
- To interpret the fundamental principles of essential hospitality and tourism business functions,
- To demonstrate professional behavior and competencies in customer service,
- To develop a range of leadership skills and abilities such as motivating others, leading changes, and resolving conflict,
- To communicate effectively in oral and written communication,
- To analyze and solve problems, using appropriate tools and technology,
- To recognize the challenges and opportunities of working effectively with people in a diverse environment.
Specialized Knowledge
Depth of knowledge required for a degree, as identified by its program learning outcomes.
Broad Integrative Knowledge
Mastery in each step of an investigative, creative or practical project (e.g. brainstorming, planning, formulating hypotheses or complex questions, designing, creating, completing, and communicating).
An understanding of the implications of results or findings from a particular work in a societal context (e.g. social or economic implications of a scientific finding).
Students graduating with a baccalaureate degree will have demonstrated an understanding of critical components of broad academic areas, the arts, humanities, social sciences, and sciences and their integration.
Intellectual Skills
Fluency in the use of specific theories, tools, technology and graphical representation.
Skills and abilities necessary for life‐long learning: critical and creative thinking, effective communication, conscientious information gathering and processing, mastery of quantitative methodologies, and the ability to engage effectively in collaborative activities.
Applied Knowledge
The ability to integrate theory, practice, and problem‐ solving to address practical issues.
The ability to apply their knowledge and skills to new settings or in addressing complex problems.
The ability to work productively as individuals and in groups
Social and Global Responsibilities
The ability to act intentionally and ethically to address a global or local problem in an informed manner with a multicultural and historical perspective and a clear understanding of societal and civic responsibilities.
Diverse and global perspectives through engagement with the multidimensional SJSU community.