Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/hspm/student-resources/scholarships.php
Title: Scholarships
Type: HTML

Scholarships
There are a number of scholarships available to students annually. Students will be notified via email (make sure your email address is updated in your MySJSU) when the scholarships are available.
Visit the LCoB Scholarship Page
NEWH Scholarship
NEWH San Francisco Bay Area Chapter is awarding scholarships to students pursuing a major and career objective within the Hospitality Industry (interior design, hospitality management, culinary, etc.). NEWH chapters and regional groups across the U.S., Canada, and the UK award scholarships annually based on the below criteria:
- Actively enrolled student: 2-year program freshman and above, 4-year sophomore/second year and above, or graduate level attending college in Northern California zip codes 936 to 961
- 3.0 GPA (cumulative), overall “B” average, or grade percentage of 83% - 86% equivalent or above
- Financial need through college for past, current, or upcoming tuition or program approved books/supplies
- Major and career objective within a hospitality related field (interior design, hospitality management, culinary, etc.)
Founded in 1984, NEWH is an international non-profit organization, which provides access to the hospitality industry through scholarships, mentorship, and education. NEWH chapters and regional groups award scholarships annually to students pursuing a future within the hospitality market. NEWH scholarship alumni boast careers in hospitality design, development, hotel management, operations, and culinary, around the world.
Apply and learn more about scholarship/chapter scholarship applications at NEWH.
Odette Morrow Scholarship
Odette Morrow was a founding “mother” of the Department of Hospitality, Tourism, and Event Management and is fondly remembered for her love of SJSU, its faculty, students, and campus.
She was a local celebrity contributing over 50 years to the lodging profession. Born
and raised in Iran, Odette spoke 7 languages and tirelessly contributed to the profitability
of several hotels in Silicon Valley through her outstanding work in hotel sales management.
Her husband, five children, family, and friends have endowed the $1000 scholarship
each year to a graduating HTEM major.
Faculty Coordinator: Dr. Jooyeon Ha
Currently not available
SKALarship
Skål is a professional organization of tourism leaders around the world, promoting global tourism and friendship. It is the only international group uniting all branches of the travel and tourism industry.
Skål International San Jose kindly offers a scholarship, which is called 'SKÅLarship', to support Hospitality Management students with their International Experience or Volunteer in 2018 Tourism Care Programs. Two students majoring in Hospitality, Tourism, and Event Management will be selected. A check for $1,000 will be given to each recipient.
Faculty Coordinator: Dr. Tsu-Hong Yen
Currently not available.