Source: https://sjsu.edu/immigration
Title: Immigration Resources
Type: HTML

Immigration Resources
Immigration Protocol: If You Are Approached By a Federal Agent
Step #1
Request Identification: Ask for the officer’s name, ID number, agency affiliation and contact information.
Step #2
Provide Clarity: communicate clearly and calmly that you are not obstructing their process and do not have the authority to respond to their request.
Step #3
Direct to UPD: Tell federal agents to first visit University Police located at 377 South 7th Street, San José, CA 95192, at the ground level of the SJSU South Parking Garage. Phone number provided below.
Step #4
Call UPD: Whether or not federal immigration enforcement agents leave, call University Police immediately.
Step #5
Maintain Safety: For safety concerns, including active physical altercations, dial 9-1-1 immediately.
Step #6
Report the Encounter: within one business day to the University Designated Official
Our Commitment
San José State University is committed to cultivating a welcoming and supportive educational environment enriched by the diversity of our students, faculty, and staff. As a globally engaged institution, we recognize the importance of providing resources and guidance related to immigration policies. This website serves as a resource for understanding individual rights, responding to immigration inquiries, and accessing available support services.
Important Facts to Know
San José State University does not share information regarding immigration status, religion, nationality, ethnicity, or any other personal details about students or employees with anyone, including law enforcement authorities, unless required by a judicially issued subpoena or other legally binding directive. Immigration enforcement is the responsibility of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), not the university. We remain committed to ensuring that SJSU is a safe and welcoming space for all members of our community.
Resources and Guidance
California SAFE Act Compliance
This website is in compliance with California Senate Bill 98, the California SAFE Act. The SAFE Act requires the CSU to alert the university community when immigration enforcement activity is confirmed on the campus unless prohibited by law. It also requires institutions of higher education to provide support to students who are detained, deported or are otherwise unable to meet their academic obligations due to the actions of immigration enforcement actions.