Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/innovation/spartup/community-circle/our-mentors/index.php
Title: Our Mentors
Type: HTML

Our Mentors
Mentor & Advisor
My expertise is in helping organizations achieve extraordinary growth by designing
and delivering products that customers want and are willing to pay for. I have 35
years of experience building and delivering enterprise software and SaaS products
into international markets, and can bring a global perspective to any project.
I work with founders and early-stage companies on go-to-market strategy, product market
fit, and scalability.
Business Advisor
Ann is an experienced Business Advisor with a background in banking and investments.
She has over 30 years of experience helping businesses grow and achieve their company
goals and objectives. She enjoys helping individuals raise capital, grow their businesses,
increase their profits, and create a secure future for themselves, their families,
and their employees.
Ann provides loan underwriting and loan packaging services and can confirm program
eligibility based on application review and credit report information.
In her free time, she loves to find recipes, modify them, and have friends over to
try her culinary creations. Her goal is to make food that is both healthy and delicious
so she spends a lot of time playing in the kitchen!
Mentor
With a diverse background spanning multiple industries, Doug Lang brings a wealth
of experience to the entrepreneurial ecosystem. Having been involved with three start-ups,
one of which was acquired, Doug has held leadership roles in medium to large public
companies in the technology, fintech, and biotechnology sectors. In 2013, Doug pivoted
to the non-profit and higher education sectors, implementing new business methodologies
and driving revenue and efficiency.
As a mentor with the Silicon Valley Chapter of the Venture Mentoring Team (VMT), Doug
is passionate about assisting early-stage startups in refining their business models
and perfecting their pitches to obtain venture funding.
A proud San José State Spartan Alumni, Doug is thrilled to give back and create a
rich entrepreneurial environment, leveraging his diverse background to contribute
to the success of the next generation of startups.