Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/innovation/spartup/events/founder-fiesta/index.php
Title: SpartUp Founder Fiesta Networking Event
Type: HTML

SpartUp Founder Fiesta Networking Event
Pitching Your Startup
March 12, 2026, 4:00 - 6:00PM
MLK Jr. Library - Room 225
In-Person - Pizza and snacks will be provided!
Rohan Brown is a visionary tech entrepreneur and the Executive Director of Innovate
Bay, an applied frontier tech incubator at San Francisco Bay University (SFBU). Under
his leadership, the incubator serves as a hub for innovation in AI, cybersecurity,
and blockchain, prioritizing real customer traction over traditional "pitch deck"
metrics.
Larry Chao is the Co-Founder of Vita, an initiative to help people navigate the new
AI-shaped Future of Work. He’s driven new technology adoption at Intel and Ricoh
and been an integral part of startups with exits to Intel (Kno, backed by a16z) and
Softbank (Cinarra, backed by Cisco). Larry studied at MIT for his BS and Stanford
University for his MS/PhD, writing a dissertation on risk and governance working at
organizations like NASA and GE, and has lectured at Stanford and San Jose State University.
Danny McLane is a founder, engineer, and builder who has spent the past decade turning
ideas into products and products into businesses. He is the Founder and CEO of Jamii
Technology, a vertically integrated engineering and media firm serving public and
academic institutions across Silicon Valley, and Co-Founder of VS1.ai, an AI-powered
sports communication platform. A proud San Jose State University alumnus (BS, Industrial
and Systems Engineering) and first-generation college graduate raised in Richmond
and Oakland, Danny has built hardware-software systems, software products, and marketing
and media campaigns for clients including SJSU, Santa Clara University, and Santa
Clara County. Through his work, Danny has helped startups build product MVPs and raise
seed funding. He has studied business in Harvard University's Young American Leaders
Program, and taught entrepreneurship workshops through Stanford University Summer
Programming.