Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/isss/current-students/employment/index.php
Title: Employment for International Students | SJSU ISSS
Type: HTML

Employment
Employment in F-1 Status
Employment in F-1 status can be defined as the following: on-campus employment, off-campus employment, and special employment. Students in F-1 status must get employment authorization BEFORE working off-campus. Working without proper employment authorization is a violation of a student’s F-1 status. Please make sure that you understand the employment information in F-1 status. If you have further questions, after reviewing the relevant webpages, then schedule an appointment to meet with an Advisor from ISSS to discuss further.
On-Campus Employment
Employment that is done on-campus at San Jose State University (SJSU). Student’s must be in F-1 status and authorization to work is not required from ISSS.
Off-Campus Employment
Students are required to receive employment authorization BEFORE working off-campus. All employment done off-campus [CPT, OPT (pre or post), STEM OPT] must be related to a student's major field of study.
Employment authorization for internships, service practicums, cooperative education, externships, and service learning activities. This can be paid or unpaid employment. Authorization comes from ISSS and students must have an I-20 with CPT authorization BEFORE they start working.
Optional Practical Training(OPT) [Pre or Post]
Employment authorization prior to degree completion, when CPT is not an option or for graduate students who are in their final semester and have completed all coursework and are only left with project/thesis/comprehensive exam. This is a multi-step application process in which students must request and get an I-20 with pre-completion OPT recommendation from ISSS to then file their application with USCIS. Employment authorization comes from USCIS.
Since July 2025, ISSS has not seen significant progress in the processing of Pre-Completion OPT applications. We are not recommending students apply for Pre-Completion OPT at this time.
Employment authorization which is done after the completion of a degree program OR after completion of all course requirements and are only left with a project, thesis or comprehensive final exam in their final semester. This is a multi-step application process in which students must request and get an I-20 with post-completion OPT recommendation from ISSS to then file their application with USCIS. Employment authorization comes from USCIS.
STEM OPT Extension
Employment authorization for STEM degree students for an additional 24 months of employment. Students must be in a period of valid post-completion OPT to be eligible. This is a multi-step application process in which students must request and get an I-20 with STEM OPT recommendation from ISSS to then file their application with USCIS. Employment authorization comes from USCIS.
*STEM OPT Reporting Requirements
Special Off-Campus Employment
Employment authorization for students who are experiencing economic hardship caused by unforeseen circumstances beyond a student's control that makes it difficult for a student to continue their education in the United States.
“SSR is the suspension of certain regulatory requirements by the secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for an F-1 student from parts of the world that are experiencing emergent circumstances. Regulatory requirements that may be suspended or altered for an F-1 student include: duration of status, full-course of study and off-campus employment eligibility.”
Important Information
Contact Us
San José State University
One Washington Square
Student Union
San Jose, CA 95192-0135
Office Hours
Monday-Friday 9am – 4:30pm