Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/isystems/what_can_i_put_on_my_resume.php
Title: What can I put on my resume?
Type: HTML

Employed Python programming (loops, branching, file access, and error handling) and
teamwork skills to develop a notebook-based project to access and analyze data from
the web.
BUS4 110A - Fundamentals of Management Information Systems
Leveraged Google Colab and Python data analytics libraries to analyze 10,000 sales
records and make value-added business recommendations. Designed an AI-powered solution
for a social problem and developed a pitch presentation for industry professionals.
BUS4 110B - Systems Analysis & Design
Conducted an analysis and design of a web store project. Created a baseline project
plan and analyzed client requirements using AI and Jira. Leveraged AI to brainstorm,
refine, and design data flows and use case diagrams implemented in Lucidchart. Completed
the database logical design and evaluated web design UI/UX with Canva AI components.
BUS4 111 - Networking & Data Communications
Applied TCP-IP Hybrid/OSI framework, critical thinking, and problem-solving skills
to design wifi and physical networks using a wifi-inspector, Archiplain and Lucidchart.
Visualized and tracked network packets using Wireshark. Enhanced data and file security
utilizing industry-standard, robust encryption methods, including AES_256. Learned
how to navigate the dark web and safeguard against online fraud and phishing attacks.
Completed the Juniper Networks Certification training program.
BUS4 112 - Database Management Systems
Designed relational databases using ER diagrams and normalization; developed schemas,
SQL queries, and stored procedures. Explored NoSQL (MongoDB), Big Data, and data warehousing.
Applied these concepts in the real-world scenarios emphasizing data integrity, transaction
management, concurrency, security, and disaster recovery for effective database administration
and modern data-driven decision-making.
BUS4 119A - Practicum in MIS
Employed Agile / Scrum methodologies and Jira to develop a value-added information
systems solution for a real-world client while effectively managing project scope
and trends, risk, time, cost, quality, human resources, procurement, and client expectations.
BUS4 119B - Business Strategy & Information Systems
Leveraged research, problem solving, team management, and communication skills to
develop a Digital Transformation business case analysis and technology solution plan
to help drive profitable revenue growth for a non-tech savvy SMB challenged by larger
competitors.
MIS Electives (Pick 2)
BUS4 118A - Cloud Computing for Data Professionals
Created and configured a Linux virtual machine and Internet-accessible blob container.
Provisioned and queried an Azure SQL database. Estimated cost of a two virtual machine
Web app, SQL database, and application gateway. Provisioned an Azure Cosmos DB database
service, performed DML operations in JSON documents. Trained, evaluated, and deployed
a machine learning model with Azure Machine Learning.
BUS4 118B - Business Intelligence
Developed visual analytics business performance management (BPM) interactive dashboards
with Tableau to track performance against planned goals. Performed Python predictive
analytics, supervised /unsupervised learning techniques, simple/ multiple linear regression;
logistic regression; cluster analysis; association rules mining (market basket analysis);
decision trees; and sentiment analysis to analyze business use cases.
BUS4 118I - AI for Social Good
Designed and developed generative AI prototypes to address real-world community challenges.
Conducted user testing to evaluate usability and impact, revealing the potential of
AI to promote social good through accessible and personalized solutions. Presented
final projects to community stakeholders and industry professionals. Gained hands-on
experience in generative AI, prompt engineering, conversational design, user experience
(UX) research, and design thinking.
Bus4 118S: Special Topics in MIS: Agentic AI for Business
Applied Agentic AI frameworks, data analysis, data visualization, and machine learning
tools to real-world use cases in CRM, HR, Marketing, and Supply Chain. Designed, developed,
and presented a capstone Agentic AI-driven business solution.
BUS4 118W - Web Based Computing
Designed and developed full-stack web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js,
and React.js. Implemented responsive UI with wireframes and mock-ups. Created web
applications using RESTful APIs, and integrated AI tools like chatbots. Collaborated
on real-world projects in a hands-on, technology-intensive development environment
Other options
BUS5 181 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship, TECH 171 - Network Security & Prevention
Management, and other technology courses on a case-by-case basis.