Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/msfa/sage.php
Title: SAGE Financial Analytics
Type: HTML

SAGE Financial Analytics
Are you currently studying finance as an undergraduate at SJSU and contemplating graduate school? The Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Finance Program enables qualified students in the BSBA Finance or Corporate Accounting & Finance program to complete requirements for both the baccalaureate and master’s degrees at the same time. Preview the SAGE Financial Analytics program here.
SAGE Financial Analytics Application
Admission Requirements
What are the admission requirements for the Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Financial Analytics?
All finance undergraduates are eligible to apply for, and be admitted to, the SAGE Financial Analytics program in Spring semester of their junior year if they fulfill the following requirements by June 1 of that year:
• Completed a minimum of 90 units towards the BS degree;
• Completed BUS1 170 (Fundamentals of Finance) and BUS2 90 (Business Statistics) with
grades of B or better;
• Have a cumulative GPA of 3.2 or better, or GPA of 3.2 or better in the last 60 semester
units;
• Completed all lower division GE requirements.
In cases where demand from qualified applicants exceeds available placements in the program, admission decisions will be determined by evaluating student GPAs, performance in prerequisite courses, and conducting interviews.
Those who qualify for the SAGE program but are not admitted are eligible for regular
MSFA admission.
What are the application deadlines?
Application deadline: March 1.
Documents required:
• Resume
• Personal Statement
Program Overview
What is the pace of the SAGE Financial Analytics program?
Please review the advising roadmap for more information.
The following roadmap is a sample advising map to complete the SAGE Scholars program
in 5 years. Please consult your major advisor as you develop your individualized academic plan. Students must have completed 60+
units in order to enroll in SJSU Studies courses.
Year 1 | Year 2 | Year 3 | Year 4 | Year 5
How much does the SAGE Finance program cost?
Students pay undergraduate tuition until they complete 120 degree eligible units. After that they pay graduate tuition (which would be for their final two semesters).
Who can I contact to learn more?
For any questions, please contact the program advisor, Dr. Tijana Rajkovic at tijana.rajkovic@sjsu.edu.