Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/msfa/msfa-faq.php
Title: MSFA FAQ
Type: HTML

MSFA FAQ
Do I need an undergraduate degree in business or finance?
No. The Lucas Graduate School MSFA program is open to students from all disciplines.
There are two prerequisite courses required: Fundamentals of Finance and Statistics, completed with a minimum grade of B and and 3.0 units or higher.
For any questions, please contact us at lucas-school@sjsu.edu.
GMAT or GRE information
The GMAT or GRE are not required but strongly recommended for applicants with GPAs less than 3.2 on a 4.0 scale. Scores at the 50th percentile in both the quantitative and verbal sections of either exam are considered competitive.
Is there a minimum GPA required for admission?
A preferred GPA of 3.2 - 4.0 or above is competitive for admission to MSFA Program. An absolute minimum GPA of 2.5 is required for graduate admission at SJSU.What do I need to do if I earned my degree outside the USA?
Graduate Admissions requires a World Education Services document-by-document evaluation for all transcripts and degrees earned outside the United States, (Basic or ICAP). This applies to all applicants with international credentials, both domestic and foreign, with the exception of Canada. WES is a non-profit organization that conducts research on international education and trends and provides expert credential evaluation services. You can find an application and directions on the WES website.When do I select which track I intend to follow (part-time or full-time)?
Once you are admitted to the MSFA program, we will send you a form in which you can select the track you intend to follow.How long will it take to receive an admission decision?
This depends on how quickly you complete your application. You must submit all the required documents and the test scores required by Graduate Admissions and the Lucas Graduate School. Once complete, your application will be reviewed typically within 3 weeks. Applications that are not completed early in the admission cycle will require additional time for review.What is the Graduate Business Professional Fee?
Without the graduate business professional fee, the college would not be able to continue
to maintain its current AACSB accredited business programs (i.e. Early Career MBA,
MSAA, MSFA). As part of the College of Business, the Lucas Graduate School of Business
is one of approximately 560 institutions worldwide - less than 6% of all business
schools - accredited by the prestigious AACSB International (The Association to Advance
Collegiate Schools of Business). In addition, the school is accredited by the Western
Association of Schools and Colleges and the California State Board of Education.
Who made the decision to implement the graduate business profession fee?
The decision to implement the graduate business professional fee was made by the California State University Board of Trustees on May 13, 2009. All CSU business schools that are either AACSB accredited or in the accreditation process will be impacted.
Which degree programs at SJSU College of Business are affected?
Early Career MBA
MS in Accounting & Analytics
MS in Financial Analytics
How much is the graduate business professional fee?
For the 25-26 academic year, $303 per unit (which equals a semester hour) in addition to the current registration fees. For example, a 3-unit course would result in $909 of GBPF fees. This fee changes in correlation to SJSU student fees. All courses that apply to the completion of the degree program will be subject to the fee.
When will this fee take effect?
The Graduate Business Professional Fee took effect beginning with the Fall 2009 semester.
Does the fee apply to international and out-of-state students?
Yes, all students including international, in-state and out-of-state residents are subject to the Graduate Business Professional Fee.
How will the revenues generated from this fee be used?
Some of the ways the fee may be used include: To maintain AACSB accreditation. To attract and retain much-needed tenure-track faculty members to teach in the graduate program. To support diversity recruitment. To provide financial assistance to eligible students. To offer graduate assistantships.
How will the fee benefit the students?
Students will receive: Continued access to the business programs which meet the quality standard of AACSB with respect to the curriculum, faculty, and services. Increased availability in financial assistance and student assistantships. Additional support in student services.
What if I can't afford this fee?
Apply online with the ‘Free Application for Federal Student Aid’ or FAFSA: https://fafsa.ed.gov/SJSU Financial Aid Office will determine eligibility for each student, giving the professional fee increase full and significant consideration. How quickly the office is able to determine your eligibility is based in large part on the completeness and accuracy of the information you provide in FAFSA. All students determined to be eligible:
(a) Can apply for State University Grant, Stafford Student Loans, and other scholarships;
(b) Between 25-33 percent of the fee revenue will be set aside for financial aid.
FEE DEFERRALS - students who have completed the financial aid application process
are given registration fee deferrals in coordination with the Bursar's Office. A fee
deferral is temporarily assigned to each student account to hold classes and delay
the payment of registration fees beyond the scheduled payment due dates pending disbursement
of the financial aid funds. This will prevent your enrollment from being cancelled.