Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/mba/early-career.php
Title: Early Career MBA
Type: HTML

Early Career MBA
New to your career or a recent graduate? If you’ve been working for five years or fewer, this program is for you. Choose from three tracks that best fit your learning pace and schedule. Classes meet on the SJSU campus, typically in the evenings and Saturdays in six-to eight-week sessions. If you don't see what you are looking for here, please check out our MBA FAQ section.
On this page:
Apply to the Early Career MBA Program
The Early Career MBA program offers admission once per year in fall.
Please use our step-by-step application process for domestic and international applicants.
Request Information
To receive program updates complete this request for information form. Visit our events page to register for an upcoming information session.
Admission Requirements
We operate on a rolling admissions basis, meaning that the sooner you submit your application, the sooner you'll receive updates about your application. As we have a competitive admissions process and limited space available, we strongly encourage you to apply early to ensure early consideration.
What are the admission requirements for the Early Career MBA?
A 4-year bachelor's degree
A preferred GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale
Official transcripts from all colleges or universities attended
Foreign degree - World Education Service (evaluation)
Personal Statement
Resume
Optional: GMAT or GRE scores, but strongly encouraged for applicants with a GPA below
3.0
Optional: Letter(s) of Recommendation
English Language Proficiency exam may be required if you have earned your degree outside the United States. You may select one of these exams:
TOEFL score of 80 or higher (IBT)
IELTS score of 6.5 or higher
GMAT/GRE (Optional)
Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 are strongly encouraged to take the GMAT or GRE to demonstrate their readiness for graduate work.What are the prerequisites for the MBA?
Statistics - with a grade of B or higher (*SJSU courses: BUS2 90, STAT 95)
Economics - with a grade of B or higher (*SJSU courses: ECON 1A, ECON 1B)
(microeconomics or macroeconomics or principles of economics)
If you need to complete one or both of these courses you can find equivalent courses* at California colleges or take them online through Straighterline (Statistics: MAT 202, Economics: ECON 101). The prerequisites must be completed by July 20, 2026. Although only one economics course is required as a prerequisite, two semesters are recommended.
Each course must be equivalent to 3.0 units or higher.
What are the application deadlines?
The Early Career MBA program admits once per year.
CSU application (Fall admission only)
Domestic applicants (not requiring a visa)
Fall applications open October 1 - May 1
Application deadline: May 1
Document deadline: May 20
International applicants
Fall applications open October 1 - April 1
Application deadline: April 1
Document deadline: April 20
Program Overview
The 42-unit program offers hybrid courses in a convenient format designed for working professionals or full-time students. Courses consist of a mix of in-person and online meetings held on weekday evenings and occasional Saturdays over five-to-eight week sessions.
- Accelerated Track: 12 months
- Full-Time Track: 21-24 months
- Part-Time Track: 33-36 months
What is the profile of a student in the Early Career MBA?
A typical student in this program will have less than 5 years of professional experience.
The program pace for students is part-time, full-time, or accelerated. Most students will complete the program in 12 - 36 months.
What is the pace of the program?
Students will take 1 - 3 courses per session
Course sessions are 6 - 8 weeks
Course schedule: evening, weekend, and some online options
Sample course schedule
Curriculum
Students complete 11 core courses and 4 electives
Students may earn internship credit as part of the MBA. All three tracks allow you to take a three-unit internship. The internship can count as one of the four required elective courses. International student on an F-1 visa can use the internship option as curricular practical training (CPT). Students in the accelerated track may experience limited access due to the program’s pace and time frame for completion.
How much does the Early Career MBA cost?
Estimated tuition costs are $25,072-$34,346 for California residents and $41,704-$50,978 for non-residents and international students. The range of fees is dependent on the program pace (accelerated, full-time, or part-time).
Is the Early Career MBA open to international students?
Yes. Please view the international applicants page for program information. Prospective students should contact the SJSU International Student and Scholar Services.
Who can I contact to learn more?
To contact the Lucas Graduate School of Business with general questions, to learn more about our programs, or admission requirements, email: lucas-school@sjsu.edu or complete this survey.