Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/mba/index.php
Title: Prospective MBA Students
Type: HTML

Prospective MBA Students
Whether it’s strengthening your negotiating skills, working as a team to run a company
or gaining hands-on experience through internships, the Lucas Graduate School of Business
provides the best of all worlds: a cutting-edge, world-class MBA that offers convenience
and flexibility—all at an affordable price.
Early Career MBA Program - Tailored for students who have fewer than five years of work experience. You will select a track of study from three options that vary in length and pace.
MBA for Professionals - Tailored for the working professional who has five plus years of relevant work experience. This program offers a high level of flexibility to accommodate your demanding life and work schedule.
Signature MBA Opportunities
Learn more about our signature opportunities available to MBA students at San Jose State University.
Silicon Valley Experience
Our MBA program offers a unique, experiential learning course called the "Silicon Valley Experience." The Silicon Valley Experience immerses students in the culture of Silicon Valley, develops an entrepreneurial mindset for our students, and enables networking opportunities with C-suite executives in Silicon Valley.
The Silicon Valley Experience course includes various professional development activities such as company visits, academic competitions, roundtable discussions, career coaching, networking events, soft-skills workshops and other events to provide students with an in-depth exposure to Silicon Valley.
The course encompasses both academic and practical topics, and is taught by both SJSU faculty and guest lecturer Silicon Valley executives and professionals. Upon completion, students will have a valuable portfolio of skills and tools that can be applied to internships or professional positions. One of the most thrilling aspects of the Silicon Valley Experience is the opportunity to visit high-tech companies and engage directly with the C-Suite executives. The students gained valuable knowledge on strategic sales approaches and competitive marketing techniques.
Course Catalog Details:
EMBA Consortium for Global Business Innovation
The EMBA Consortium for Global Business Innovation is a unique partnership between leading business schools around the world formed with the singular intent of providing intensive, experiential, and globally focused learning experiences for students in Executive MBA programs or equivalent graduate programs. While our students benefit from interacting with visitors from different countries, they also get the opportunity to visit different countries as a part of their program.
Graduate Business Student Association (GBSA)
The Graduate Business Student Association (GBSA) represents the interests and needs of MBA students while promoting a unified student community. The association aims to enhance the identity and perception of the Lucas Graduate School of Business graduate programs by developing external relationships with alumni, faculty, and the business community.
Entreprenership and Innovation Certificate
This 9 unit (3 courses) Certificate in Innovation & Entrepreneurship will enable SJSU Master's students majoring in Business as well as non-Business disciplines to gain hands-on, experiential training in innovation and entrepreneurship with low barriers to entry.
Students must complete three courses:
• BUS 283 Entrepreneurship - a foundational course in Innovation and Entrepreneurship
that's an MBA elective.
• BUS5 186V Venture Lab - an experiential course in which students will work with
mentors to launch their own startup.
• BUS5 186H Entrepreneurship Lab - an experiential practicum in which students work
at a high-growth startup.
(Only one of the BUS5 186V or BUS5 186H courses will count towards the MBA degree.)
In addition, students are strongly encouraged to participate in these extra-curricular
programs:
• Silicon Valley Innovation Challenge (SVIC)
• ZinnStarter Program
• Eminent Speaker series & Workshops
• SV Business Plan Competition (SVBPC)
If you would like to learn more or have any questions, please email anu.basu@sjsu.edu.