Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/msa/index.php
Title: Prospective MSAA Students
Type: HTML

Prospective MSAA Students
If you plan to become a CPA and want to live and work as a professional accountant
in Silicon Valley, you will not find a better program than SJSU. Admission is offered
in the fall semester. Please see the MSAA FAQ for details on requirements.
The Master of Science in Accounting and Analytics, a STEM designated program, is a flexible 30-unit degree program designed for both accounting and non-accounting undergraduates who aspire to a profession in accounting. Coursework includes advanced financial reporting, auditing, taxation, IT auditing and financial statement analysis. Students with an undergraduate degree in accounting enroll in a course of study to earn a masters degree that fulfills the 30 additional units required for CPA licensure. Ambitious, highly motivated people with undergraduate degrees in liberal arts, sciences or business will need to complete the intensive Certificate in Accounting Fundamentals summer program before they can be admitted into the MSAA degree program.
On this page:
- How to apply
- Request information
- Admission requirements
- Program overview
- CPA Resources
- SAGE Accountancy Program
Apply to LGSB
The MS in Accounting and Analytics program offers admission in the fall semester.
Please use our step-by-step application process for domestic and international applicants.
Request Information
To receive program updates complete this request for information form. Visit our events page to register for an upcoming information session.
Admission Requirements
We operate on a rolling admissions basis, meaning that the sooner you submit your application, the sooner you'll receive updates about your application. As we have a competitive admissions process and limited space available, we strongly encourage you to apply early to ensure early consideration.
What are the admission requirements for the MS in Accounting and Analytics?
A 4-year bachelor's degree
A preferred GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale
Official transcripts from all colleges or universities attended
Foreign degree - World Education Service (evaluation)
Personal Statement
Resume
(2) Letters of Recommendation
Interview with the Program Director
Optional: GMAT or GRE scores, but strongly encouraged for applicants with a GPA below
3.0
English Language Proficiency exam may be required if you have earned your degree outside of the United States.
You may select one of these exams:
TOEFL score of 90 or higher (IBT)
IELTS score of 7.5 or higher
GMAT/GRE (Optional)
Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 are strongly encouraged to take the GMAT or GRE to demonstrate their readiness for graduate work.
What are the prerequisites for the MSAA?
Courses in () are the equivalent undergraduate courses at SJSU
Statistics-lower division (BUS2 90)
Introductory Financial Accounting-lower division (BUS1 20)
Intermediate Financial Accounting I (BUS1 121A)
Intermediate Financial Accounting II (BUS1 121B)
Accounting Information Systems (BUS1 120A)
Management Accounting and Control Systems (BUS1 122A)
Tax Factors of Business and Investment Decisions (BUS1 123A)
Applicants can complete these courses via the Accounting Fundamentals Certificate in summer.
US Accounting degree
Non-US Accounting degree
No Accounting degree
What are the application deadlines?
The MS in Accounting and Analytics admits in the fall semester.
CSU application
Domestic applicants (not requiring a visa)
Fall applications open October 1 - March 1
Application deadline: March 1
Document deadline: March 20
International applicants
Fall applications open October 1 - December 1
Application deadline: December 1
Document deadline: December 20
Program Overview
What is the pace of the MSAA program?
Students attend the MSAA as part of a full-time cohort.
View the MSAA curriculum, learning goals, and schedule.
Students complete the MSAA in 2 semesters or one academic year. The program is 10
courses (30 units) with an optional paid internship for eligible students. Courses
are offered during the morning and afternoon.
How much does the MSAA cost?
Estimated tuition costs are $17,526 for CA residents and $29,406 for non-residents and international studentsIs the MSAA open to international students?
Yes. International applicants may apply for the fall semester. Please view the international applicants page for program information. Prospective students should contact the SJSU International Student and Scholar Services.Who can I contact to learn more?
To contact the Lucas Graduate School of Business with general questions, to learn more about our programs, or admission requirements, email: lucas-school@sjsu.edu or complete this survey.
CPA Resources
Do you have questions about the CPA?
California Board of Accountancy
150 Units "Tip Sheet" [pdf] from the CA Board of Accountancy
SAGE Accountancy Program
Are you currently studying accounting as an undergraduate at SJSU and contemplating graduate school? The Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Accountancy Program enables qualified students in the BSBA Accounting to complete requirements for both the baccalaureate and master’s degrees at the same time.