Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/msa/sage.php
Title: SAGE Accounting and Analytics
Type: HTML

SAGE Accounting and Analytics
Are you currently studying accounting as an undergraduate at SJSU and contemplating graduate school? The Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Accounting and Analytics program enables qualified students in the BSBA Accounting to complete requirements for both the baccalaureate and master’s degrees at the same time. Preview the SAGE Accounting and Analytics program here.
SAGE Accounting and Analytics Application
Admission Requirements
What are the admission requirements for the Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Accounting and Analytics Program?
All current SJSU BSBA Accounting undergraduates are eligible for this SAGE program if they fulfill the following requirements:
• Have completed a minimum of 90 units towards the BSBA degree
• Have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better, or GPA of 3.0 or better in the last 60 semester
units
• Have completed all lower division GE requirements
• Will have completed BUS1 120A, BUS1 121A, and BUS1 121B with an average GPA of 3.0
by June 1 of junior year.
What are the prerequisites for the SAGE MSAA program?
The completion of the below courses with a B average or better:
• BUS1 120A - Accounting Information Systems
• BUS1 121A - Intermediate Accounting I
• BUS1 121B - Intermediate Accounting II
What are the application deadlines?
Application deadline: March 1 (the Spring semester you’re finishing the 3 prerequisites listed above).
Documents required:
• Resume
• Personal statement
Program Overview
What is the pace of the SAGE MSAA program?
Please review the advising roadmap for more information.
The following roadmap is a sample advising map to complete the SAGE Scholars program in 5 years. Please consult your major advisor as you develop your individualized academic plan. Students must have completed 60+ units in order to enroll in SJSU Studies courses.
How much does the SAGE MSAA program cost?
Students pay undergraduate tuition until they complete 120 degree eligible units. After that they pay graduate tuition (which would be for their final two semesters).Who can I contact to learn more?
For any questions, please contact the program advisor, Benjamin Anderson at benjamin.c.anderson@sjsu.edu.