Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/msfa/index.php
Title: Prospective MSFA Students
Type: HTML

Prospective MSFA Students
The SJSU Master of Science in Financial Analytics is a STEM-designated program that provides you with a world-class curriculum taught by cutting-edge, experienced finance faculty. You'll take advantage of the interactive courses, flexible schedule, and a network of top-tier students in the Silicon Valley which enable you to enhance collaboration and learning experience.
Our program offers corporate finance courses in the areas of:
- Corporate Finance Analytics
- Advance Corporate Finance
- Financial Derivatives in Corporate Finance
- Financial Planning and Analysis
- Financial Modeling and Data Visualization
On this page:
Apply to the MSFA program
The MS Financial Analytics program offers admission once per year in Fall. Please use our step-by-step application process for domestic and international applicants.
Apply to MSFA today to begin a rewarding, in-demand corporate finance career while helping organizations achieve their financial goals. Visit CalState.edu/apply.
Request Information
Visit our events page to register for an upcoming information session. To receive program updates complete this request for information form. To contact the Lucas Graduate School of Business with general questions, to learn more about our programs, or admission requirements, please email: lucas-school@sjsu.edu or complete this survey.
Admission Requirements
We operate on a rolling admissions basis, meaning that the sooner you submit your application, the sooner you'll receive updates about your application. As we have a competitive admissions process and limited space available, we strongly encourage you to apply early to ensure early consideration.
What are the admission requirements for the MS in Financial Analytics program?
A 4-year bachelor's degree from an accredited university in the U.S. or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree earned from a recognized institution if the degree was earned outside of the U.S. For foreign degree - World Education Service (evaluation) is required.
A preferred GPA of 3.2 on a 4.0 scale.
Official transcripts from all colleges or universities attended.
A personal statement of one to two pages explaining how an MSFA can help to achieve the applicant’s career objectives.
A resume detailing the candidate’s professional and academic experiences.
Optional: GMAT or GRE are not required but strongly recommended for applicants with GPAs less than 3.2 on a 4.0 scale. Scores at the 50th percentile in both the quantitative and verbal sections of either exam are considered competitive.
Optional: Up to two Letters of Recommendation.
English Language Proficiency examination if the previously earned degree was from an institution in which the principal language of instruction was not English. The university’s minimum entrance score for the TOEFL is 80 (iBT). The minimum score required on the IELTS is 6.5, and the minimum PTE score is 53.
GMAT/GRE (Optional)
GMAT or GRE are not required but strongly recommended for applicants with GPAs less than 3.2 on a 4.0 scale. Scores at the 50th percentile in both the quantitative and verbal sections of either exam are considered competitive.What are the prerequisites for the MS in Financial Analytics program?
The MSFA program requires the completion of two prerequisite courses:
1. FUNDAMENTALS OF FINANCE
At SJSU this course is BUS1 170.
Please note that courses taken at community colleges or through alternative online providers are not considered equivalent to BUS1 170. We strongly recommend that students complete this course at SJSU.
To support you in meeting this requirement, BUS1 170 will be offered during the summer at SJSU on a space-available basis. If you need assistance with registration or have any questions, please feel free to contact us.
2. STATISTICS
At SJSU this course is BUS2 90 or STAT 95.
If needed, you may fulfill the Statistics prerequisite through an equivalent course at a California college or online via Straighterline (MAT 202).
Please ensure the course is equivalent before enrolling. Contact us if you need help verifying course eligibility.
Important Notes:
Your transcripts will be reviewed as part of the admission process, and you will be notified of any prerequisite courses required at the time of admission.
Both prerequisite courses must be completed with a grade of B or higher by July 20, 2026.
Each course must be equivalent to 3.0 units or higher.
What are the application deadlines?
The MS in Financial Analytics program admits once per year.
CSU application (Fall admission only)
Domestic applicants (not requiring a visa)
Fall applications open October 1 - May 1
Application deadline: May 1
Document deadline: May 20
International applicants
Fall applications open October 1 - April 1
Application deadline: April 1
Document deadline: April 20
Program Overview
What are MS in Financial Analytics program learning objectives?
The Master of Science in Financial Analytics (MSFA) program, offered by the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business, prepares students for careers in finance units of non-financial firms. The program emphasizes the knowledge necessary to succeed in corporate finance roles. It teaches students to develop an evidence-based mindset and apply technical finance concepts to corporate financial planning & analysis problems. The course work is structured to combine accounting and finance knowledge, as well as provide experience with the relevant technology and prepare well-rounded professionals for careers in corporate finance roles. In addition to technical and analytical skills, the program emphasizes the development of communication skills, professional development, and career readiness.
What is the pace of the program?
The Master of Science in Financial Analytics program consists of 30 units.
Course sessions will be scheduled in eight week sessions with a hybrid mode of offerings: including but not limited to Zoom sessions, in-person, weekend, or evening class sessions – a convenient format for working professionals.
Sample study plan
MSFA class schedules
Curriculum
We offer courses year-round in the Fall, Spring, and Summer. Students will have the flexibility of pursuing the degree track that best suits their schedule.
How much does the MS in Financial Analytics program cost?
Full-time: Estimated tuition costs are $20,000-$21,000 for California residents and $32,000-$33,000 for non-residents and international students.
Part-time: Estimated tuition costs are $25,000-$26,000 for California residents and $36,000-$38,000 for non-residents and international students.
The range of fees is dependent on the program pace (full-time, or part-time).
Is the MS in Financial Analytics program open to international students?
Yes. Prospective students should contact the SJSU International Student and Scholar Services. This programs is recognized as STEM-eligible at SJSU. For questions about STEM-OPT, please visit this website.
Who can I contact to learn more?
To contact the Lucas Graduate School of Business with general questions, to learn more about our programs, or admission requirements, please email: lucas-school@sjsu.edu or complete this survey.
SAGE Finance Program
Are you currently studying finance as an undergraduate at SJSU and contemplating graduate school? The Spartan Accelerated Graduate Education (SAGE) Finance Program enables qualified students in the BSBA Finance to complete requirements for both the baccalaureate and master’s degrees at the same time. Preview the SAGE Finance program here.