Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/msa/faq.php
Title: MSAA FAQ
Type: HTML

MSAA FAQ
Does the MSAA program require a specific undergraduate degree for admission?
The MSAA welcomes applicants from all disciplines.Are there prerequisite courses?
The MSAA requires seven prerequisite courses completed with an average grade of B or better within the five years prior to enrollment. The first prerequisite course is Statistics and the second prerequisite course is Introductory Financial Accounting, which must be the equivalent of three semester hours and completed at an institution in the United States. The acceptable course offered at SJSU is Financial Accounting, BUS 20. Many local community colleges offer Financial Accounting on site and online. You may explore these options under the BUS 20 listing at: http://info.sjsu.edu/web-dbgen/artic/all-course-to-course.html
You may complete the remaining five prerequisite courses in the summer Certificate in Accounting Fundamentals. These five courses are all upper division and you may not complete them at a community college. If you do not have an accounting background, you should plan to complete a course in financial accounting by May 1.
If you are selected for admission to the MSAA for fall but still need some or all
of the prerequisite courses, your offer of admission will be conditional. The condition will be that you successfully complete the required courses in the
Certificate in Accounting Fundamentals offered in the summer term.
Is an internship required?
No. However, Bus 220K is an optional three-unit practicum scheduled during the spring semester. The course is an integral part of the MSAA program because it provides you with an invaluable internship and practical experience. Therefore, all students admitted to the MSAA program should be eligible to work in the United States.How do I secure an internship?
The MSAA program staff will support and assist you in finding an internship. But, ultimately, your skills and the impression you make during the interview process will help you land an internship. The MSAA program cannot guarantee that all students will be offered an internship.Is there a minimum GPA required for admission?
A preferred GPA of 3.0 or better (on a 4.0 scale). The absolute minimum GPA is 2.5 to be admissable to SJSU.GMAT/GRE information
The GMAT and GRE are optional. Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 are strongly encouraged to take the GMAT or GRE to demonstrate their readiness for graduate work. Scores at the 50th percentile in both the quantitative and verbal sections of the exam are considered competitive. If you take the GMAT or GRE we recommend that you prepare for the exam, take it as early as possible, and retake it if you do not score competitively.Can the English language proficiency examination be waived?
Graduate Admissions may waive the examination if you have:
Received a bachelors or masters degree from an accredited US institution.
Received a bachelors or masters degree from an accredited institution for which English
is the official and primary language of that country.
Completed three years of full time coursework in an accredited U.S. institution.
What do I need to do if I earned my degree outside the USA?
Graduate Admissions requires a World Education Services document-by-document evaluation for all transcripts and degrees earned outside the United States, (Basic or ICAP). This applies to all applicants with international credentials, both domestic and foreign, with the exception of Canada. WES is a non-profit organization that conducts research on international education and trends and provides expert credential evaluation services. You can find an application and directions on the WES website.When will I hear about admission?
The Lucas Graduate School of Business has a process of rolling admissions. Once your application is complete it is reviewed by the program director and the interview is scheduled. Typically, all interviews are complete by mid-April and all students are provided an admission decision by late April.What is the graduate business professional fee?
Without the graduate business professional fee, the College of Business would not
be able to continue to maintain its current AACSB accredited business programs (i.e.
MBA, MSAA, MSF). As part of the College of Business, the Lucas Graduate School of
Business is one of approximately 560 institutions worldwide - less than 6% of all
business schools - accredited by the prestigious AACSB International (The Association
to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business). In addition, the school is accredited
by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges and the California State Board
of Education.
Who made the decision to implement the graduate business profession fee?
The decision to implement the graduate business professional fee was made by the California
State University Board of Trustees on May 13, 2009. All CSU business schools that
are either AACSB accredited or in the accreditation process will be impacted.
Which degree programs at SJSU College of Business are affected?
Early Career MBA
MS in Accounting & Analytics
MS in Financial Analytics
How much is the graduate business professional fee?
For the 25-26 academic year, $303 per unit (which equals a semester hour) in addition
to the current registration fees. For example, a 3-unit course would result in $909
of GBPF fees. This fee changes in correlation to SJSU student fees. All courses that
apply to the completion of the degree program will be subject to the fee.
When will this fee take effect?
The Graduate Business Professional Fee took effect beginning with the Fall 2009 semester.
Does the fee apply to international and out-of-state students?
Yes, all students including international, in-state and out-of-state residents are
subject to the Graduate Business Professional Fee.
How will the revenues generated from this fee be used?
Some of the ways the fee may be used include: To maintain AACSB accreditation. To
attract and retain much-needed tenure-track faculty members to teach in the graduate
program. To support diversity recruitment. To provide financial assistance to eligible
students. To offer graduate assistantships.
How will the fee benefit the students?
Students will receive: Continued access to the business programs which meet the quality
standard of AACSB with respect to the curriculum, faculty, and services. Increased
availability in financial assistance and student assistantships. Additional support
in student services.
What if I can't afford this fee?
Apply online with the ‘Free Application for Federal Student Aid’ or FAFSA. SJSU Financial Aid Office will determine eligibility for each student, giving the professional fee increase
full and significant consideration. How quickly the office is able to determine your
eligibility is based in large part on the completeness and accuracy of the information
you provide in FAFSA. All students determined to be eligible:
(a) Can apply for State University Grant, Stafford Student Loans, and other scholarships;
(b) Between 25-33 percent of the fee revenue will be set aside for financial aid.
FEE DEFERRALS - students who have completed the financial aid application process
are given registration fee deferrals in coordination with the Bursar's Office. A fee
deferral is temporarily assigned to each student account to hold classes and delay
the payment of registration fees beyond the scheduled payment due dates pending disbursement
of the financial aid funds. This will prevent your enrollment from being cancelled.