Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/lucasgsb/prospective-students/mba/professionals.php
Title: MBA for Professionals
Type: HTML

MBA for Professionals
Ready for a promotion, expanded responsibilities or something completely new? This flexible MBA allows you to choose and adjust the pace at which you complete your degree. If you have been working for five or more years, the MBA for Professionals is for you. Please see below for all of the essential information and refer to our MBA FAQs for more detailed info.
On this page:
Apply to the MBA for Professionals program
The MBA for Professionals program offers admission twice a year, fall and spring. Please use our step-by-step application process for domestic and international applicants.
Request Information
To receive program updates complete this request for information form. Visit our events page to register for an upcoming information session.
Admission Requirements
We operate on a rolling admissions basis, meaning that the sooner you submit your application, the sooner you'll receive updates about your application. As we have a competitive admissions process and limited space available, we strongly encourage you to apply early to ensure early consideration.
What are the admission requirements for the MBA for Professionals?
A 4-year bachelor's degree
A preferred GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale
Official transcripts from all colleges or universities attended
Foreign degree - World Education Service (evaluation)
Personal Statement
Resume - minimum of 5+ years of professional experience
Optional: GMAT or GRE scores, but strongly encouraged for applicants with a GPA below
3.0
Optional: Letter(s) of Recommendation
English Language Proficiency exam may be required if you have earned your degree outside the United States. You may select one of these exams:
TOEFL score of 80 or higher (IBT)
IELTS score of 6.5 or higher
GMAT/GRE (Optional)
Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 are strongly encouraged to take the GMAT or GRE to demonstrate their readiness for graduate work.What are the prerequisites for the MBA?
Statistics - with a grade of B or higher (*SJSU courses: BUS2 90, STAT 95)
Economics - with a grade of B or higher (*SJSU courses: ECON 1A, ECON 1B)
(microeconomics or macroeconomics or principles of economics)
If you need to complete one or both of these courses you can find equivalent courses* at California colleges or take them online through Straighterline (Statistics: MAT 202, Economics: ECON 101). The prerequisites must be completed by July 20, 2026 (Fall) and January 5, 2026 (Spring). Although only one economics course is required as a prerequisite, two semesters are recommended.
Each course must be equivalent to 3.0 units or higher.
What are the application deadlines?
The MBA for Professionals program admits twice per year.
CSU application (Fall & Spring admission)
Domestic applicants (not requiring a visa)
Fall applications open October 1 - May 1
Application deadline: May 1
Document deadline: May 20
Spring applications open August 1 - November 1
Application deadline: November 1
Document deadline: November 20
International applicants
Fall applications open October 1 - April 1
Application deadline: April 1
Document deadline: April 20
Spring applications open August 1 - October 1
Application deadline:October 1
Document deadline: October 20
Program Overview
What is the profile of a student in the MBA for Professionals program?
A typical student in this program will have a minimum of 5+ years of professional experience.
The program pace for students is part-time, although the program can be completed more quickly, if needed. Most students will complete the program in 24 - 36 months.
What is the pace of the program?
Students will take 0 - 2 courses per semester
Course sessions are 6 - 8 weeks
Course schedule: evening, weekend, and some online options
Sample course schedule
Curriculum
Students complete 11 core courses and 4 electives
How much does the MBA for Professionals cost?
MBAP courses cost $1,011 per unit (the program is 42 units).
Beginning Fall 2026, courses will cost $1,062 per unit.
Is the MBA for Professionals open to international students?
Yes, on a case-by-case basis.Who can I contact to learn more?
To contact the Lucas Graduate School of Business with general questions, to learn more about our programs, or admission requirements, email: lucas-school@sjsu.edu or complete this survey.