Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mgmt/alumni.php
Title: Alumni Resources
Type: HTML

Alumni Resources
Be a Proud Spartan and Member of SJSU Alumni Association, Join Today!
Joining the Alumni Association is one of the best ways to show your Spartan Pride. Alumni membership connects you to a network of graduates throughout the country who represent the ideals of San José State University. Strengthen the value of your degree, access career resources, enjoy money-saving benefits, and stay connected to your alma mater that is powering the world!
Get help launching your career.
Alumni, within a year of graduation, maintain access to:
- Career center apps: SJSU Handshake job board, Focus2, SJSU² (alumni-to-alumni connections), and Big Interview.*
- 1:1 career coaching (up to 3 virtual appointments per year). Email your counselor to schedule an appointment.
- Career Center guides that provide top tips on resume/cover letter writing, job/internship search, interviewing, etc.
*To access any of the Career Center apps listed above, continue to use your SSO (SJSUOne ID and password).
Student Services guidelines apply.
Apply for jobs and internships targeted to SJSU students and alumni
Alumni who graduated within the last 12 months, click here to access SJSU Handshake.
To log in:
1. Go to sjsu.joinhandshake.com
2. Click on sign in with your email address below the SJSU Sign On button
3. Enter your email address and click next
4. On this Hello! screen, click log in using your Handshake credentials
5. Enter your password
- If your password is incorrect, it will take you back to step 3
- Keep in mind, you will always log in with your email and password
To create or reset your password:
1. Repeat above to get to step 4
2. Click Forgot your password?
3. Enter your email address and click Reset Password
4. You should receive an email from Handshake with a link to reset your password
NOTE: SJSU IT Support is NOT responsible for Handshake login or password reset.
Alumni who graduated more than 12 months ago, students on leave from SJSU, and Cal State-affiliated alumni must have a Career Center membership to access SJSU Handshake.
Explore your membership options and join today.
Student Records & Graduation
Go to the Registrar’s Office to request a transcript or any other student records.