Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mgmt/faculty/index.php
Title: Faculty
Type: HTML

Faculty
Jump to Faculty Contacts & Short Biographies:
Thomas Altura - Associate Professor
Michael Ashley - Lecturer
Anu Basu - Professor
Steve Bennet - Lecturer
Wendy Bradley - Assistant Professor
Amy Carlson - Lecturer
Art Casey - Lecturer
Singmay Chou - Lecturer
Nancy Da Silva - Professor
Scott Daugherty - Lecturer
Joseph Dworak - Lecturer
Walter Easter - Lecturer
Elizabeth Garcia - Lecturer
Monica Gavino - Professor
Andrea Geissinger - Assistant Professor
Lucille Headrick - Assistant Professor
Mike Hill - Lecturer
Rangapriya (Priya) Kannan - Dean & Professor
Susanna Khavul - Director & Professor
Yeonka Kim - Assistant Professor
Tanvi Kothari - Professor
Gretchen Vogelgesang Lester - Professor
Jingmei Li - Lecturer
Jacob Linetsky - Lecturer
Arvinder Loomba - Professor
Nancy Long - Lecturer
Nathaniel Lupton - Associate Professor
Matthew Maguire - Associate Professor
Naresh Malik - Lecturer
Gita Mathur - Professor
Elisa Mattarelli - Professor
Mark McKenna - Lecturer
Shari Moore - Lecturer
Elizabeth Mullen - Associate Professor
Bill Musgrave - Lecturer
Yeonji No - Lecturer
Mariah Norell - Lecturer
Virpi Outila - Assistant Professor
Ash Padwal - Lecturer
Rolanda P. Farrington Pollard - Lecturer
Sarika Pruthi - Professor
Iris Quan - Professor
Eric Quick - Lecturer
Gary D. Radine - Lecturer
Sumita Raghuram - Professor
Alaka Rao - Professor
Rick Rasmussen - Lecturer
Carol Reade - Professor
Simon Rodan - Professor
Ronald Roman - Lecturer
Neeraj Sahejpal - Lecturer
Ginevra Scherini - Lecturer
Tyler Shewey - Lecturer
Thomas Shirley - Lecturer
Parker "Carlos" Singh - Lecturer
Edward Smithers - Lecturer
Janet Tan - Lecturer
Terry Thompson - Lecturer
Meg Virick - Associate Dean & Professor
Chunlei Wang - Associate Professor
Pamela Wells - Lecturer
Emeritus Faculty:
George Whaley - Emeritus Professor
Robert Wood - Emeritus Professor
Thomas Altura, Associate Professor
Office: BT 665
Email: thomas.altura@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-7884
Dr. Thomas Altura is an associate professor in the School of Management at San José State University. He received his Ph.D. and M.B.A. from the UCLA Anderson School of Management, and holds a B.A. in Anthropology, also from UCLA. Tom’s research focuses on organization theory and institutional change and has been published in leading academic journals. His research is highly multidisciplinary and employs both quantitative and qualitative methods. Tom teaches in the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business’s undergraduate and M.B.A. programs; the College of Education's Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership (Ed.D.); and the College of Engineering’s M.S. Engineering, Specialization in Business Leadership program. His courses include Organization Theory; Organizational Behavior and Change in Education; Developing and Managing People; Fundamentals of Management and Organizational Behavior; and Managing Organizational Change. The recipient of numerous awards, Tom was recognized with the prestigious Distinguished Teaching Award, the College of Business’s highest teaching honor.
Michael Ashley, Lecturer
Office: BT 453
Email: michael.ashley@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3128
Michael “Mash” Ashley is the Founder and CEO of Foclarity, a SaaS platform that helps teams align around top-level priorities and strategic goals. With over 25 years at the intersection of innovation, strategy, and execution, he has cofounded and scaled startups (including four exits), guided dozens of companies from concept to traction, and launched a university-based incubator at San José State University. Mash’s focus is turning bold ideas into real-world impact through clarity, alignment, and coordinated execution. As a lecturer at San José State’s Lucas College and Graduate School of Business, he combines deep experience with academic rigor equipping students to tackle complex challenges and think like founders.
Anu Basu, Professor
Office: BT 556
Email: anu.basu@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3593
Dr. Anuradha Basu is Professor of Entrepreneurship, Director of the Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship and Faculty Advisor to the IDEAS Club at SJSU. Her research interests include immigrant and minority entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurship education. She teaches undergraduate and graduate-level Entrepreneurship courses and taught the Business Honors Practicum. She has advised numerous aspiring entrepreneurs and has received recognition for outstanding service, research and teaching. She received SJSU’s Distinguished Service Award and LCoB’s Master Teacher Award in 2021, was named among 100 Women of Influence by Silicon Valley Business Journal in 2022, was an Honored Listee in Marquis Who’s Who, 2024, and was a Public Voices Fellow of the OpEd Project. Prior to joining SJSU, she was Associate Professor at the University of Reading, UK and a Research Fellow at Stanford University. She earned MPhil and PhD degrees in Economics from the University of Cambridge, UK, and an MBA from IIM Calcutta, India.
Steve Bennet, Lecturer
Office: BT 455
Email: steven.bennet@sjsu.edu
Steve Bennet has been CFO, investor, and/or board member of over 150 technology start-ups, including Ripple Labs, iControl Networks, Orbital Data and Anonymizer. He also has been a partner or investor at CrossCoin Ventures, Outlook Ventures, Menlo Incubator, True Global Ventures and Sand Hill Angels. Steve joined the SJSU faculty in 2006. His focus is on experiential education and has developed new courses, including the ELAB, VLAB, Startup Founders and Funders, and the Silicon Valley Experience. At SJSU he has served on the Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship, Patent Review Board, Dean’s Advisory Board and is Chairman of the Spartan Angel Fund. He is currently Board Chair at ScholarMatch, an educational non-profit. Steve earned an economics degree from Wharton and MBA from UCLA.
Wendy Bradley, Assistant Professor
Office: BT 563
Email: wendy.bradley@sjsu.edu
Dr. Wendy Bradley is an Assistant Professor in the School of Management at San José State University. She holds a Ph.D. in Strategy and Management Policy from HEC Paris, M.Sc in Finance and International Political Economy from SciencesPo and the London School of Economics, and a B.A. in French from the University of Texas at Austin. Before joining SJSU, she was an Assistant Professor at SMU’s Cox School of Business and a policy fellow at Oxford University. Her research focuses on innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology management. She is interested in how digital innovation—such as BitTorrent, AR/VR, 3D printing, and AI—differs from traditional economic goods, and the implications of these differences for business strategy, policy, and society. Her work appears in Research Policy, Industry and Innovation, and the International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior &; Research. She won the Strategic Management Society’s Knowledge &; Innovation Best Paper Award from for her research, which draws on her prior experience as a financial consultant in law firms in the U.S. and abroad.
Amy Carlson, Lecturer
Office: BT 564
Email: amy.carlson@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8037
Amy Carlson is a trial attorney at CSAA Insurance Group, also known as AAA Insurance, in San Jose, California with a J.D. from California Western School of Law in San Diego and a B.A. from University of California, San Diego. She has been a presenter for the Santa Clara County Bar Association, Inns of Court, and the Santa Clara County Trial Lawyers Association for 20 years. She has been chair of the Civil Practice Committee, Labor & Employment Committee, Women Lawyers Section, and the Judiciary Committee of the Santa Clara County Bar Association.
Art Casey, Lecturer
Office: BT 552
Email: arthur.casey@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3535
Art Casey is a partner at Ford Walker Haggerty & Behar LLP. Art manages the firm’s Silicon Valley Office in Los Gatos, California. Art has a J.D. from Santa Clara University and a B.A. from University of San Diego. Art has been teaching in the School of Management at San Jose State University for the past 18 years. Art has also been an author and lecturer for California Continuing Education of the Bar (CEB) for several years, including Chapter Author for CEB Publication, California Civil Discovery Practice, 4th Ed. (2006). He is a member of DRI (a national organization of attorneys in the civil trial defense bar) and a longstanding member of Northern California Association of Defense Counsel.
Singmay Chou, Lecturer
Office: BT 660
Email: singmay.chou@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-1172
Singmay Chou has taught at SJSU since 2017 and teaches Strategic Management, Managing My Life, and Managing the Global Economy. She is the Director of the Thompson Global Internship Program, a competitive internship for LCOB undergraduates to work at Crown Worldwide at one of their international offices. Prior to SJSU she lived and worked in the Asia region where she was the Director of Kapok Tree Limited, a consulting firm in change management, strategic planning, and organizational effectiveness. Her prior business experience includes positions as Vice President of Marketing and Product for Luxottica Retail Greater China, General Manager of Marketing for Dragonair, and consultant with Towers Perrin. She earned a BS in Economics from the Wharton School, a BA in East Asian Studies from the University of Pennsylvania, and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Nancy Da Silva, Professor
Office: BT 262
Email: nancy.dasilva@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-7798
Dr. Nancy Da Silva is a professor of Management, with a background in Industrial and
Organizational Psychology with a Ph.D. from the University of Houston. She conducts
research in the area of positive psychology with a focus on employee creativity and
innovation. In addition, Nancy studies the impact of telecommuting on employee attitudes
and behaviors. She has consulted for the following organizations: Sapience Group,
Survey and Policy Research Institute at San Jose State University, the Vandaveer Group,
Inc., and FSD Data Services, Inc. Her consulting primarily focuses on survey development,
validation of assessment tools and statistical analysis.
Scott Daugherty, Lecturer
Office: BT 552
Email: scott.daugherty@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-4428
Scott Daugherty enjoyed a 35-year career as an Executive Vice President, CFO, Board
Member, and Chairman of Colliers Parrish International, Inc. He represented significant
technology and national financial services firms as their commercial real estate broker
and advisor. Scott has taught real estate finance and transaction courses in the business
schools at Santa Clara University, Menlo College, and San Jose State University. He
is a CPA, a Lucas College and Graduate School of Business (accounting) graduate, and
an MBA (corporate finance, strategy and real estate) from the Kellogg School of Management
at Northwestern University. He has volunteered extensively at San Jose State University
in the past, primarily as a board member and a major gifts fundraiser. He is the alumni
industry advisor to the Spartan Real Estate Association (SREA) student club, which
was founded in the Fall of 2024, and serves on the LCoB Dean’s Advisory Board as fundraising
chair.
Joseph Dworak, Lecturer
Office: BT 660
Email: joseph.dworak@sjsu.edu
Joseph Dworak, is a senior partner - a commercial litigation attorney at Berliner Cohen in San Jose, CA. He handles a broad range of complex commercial cases. He has obtained the largest settlement and longest jury trial in the law firm’s history. He fostered his law firm’s expansion, opening several branches in California. He has served as a Judge Pro Tem for the Superior Court of California and acting Special Master for the State Bar of California. He was selected as “Super Lawyer” by the San Francisco Magazine for his professional achievement.
Walter Easter, Lecturer
Office: BT 552
Email: walter.easter@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-1056
Dr. Walter Easter has successfully owned and operated a small business for 34 years. He co-authored a book “The ABC’s of Marketing a Successful Business.” As Senior Advisor to the G.o.A.L. (Generation of Aspirational Leaders) team, Dr. Easter was instrumental in developing and implementing criteria for measuring student success. He recently presented a research paper "Creating Community for Students' Academic and Career Success" at the American Society of Business and Behavioral Sciences in Las Vegas. Dr. Easter received his DDS in dentistry from the University of California, San Francisco, an MBA from Louisiana State University, Shreveport, and a BS from University of California, Davis. He is a Fellow of the American College of Dentists.
Elizabeth Garcia, Lecturer
Office: BT 564
Email: elizabeth.garcia@sjsu.edu
Elizabeth has held positions in Human Resources leadership at Aragen Bioscience, Harris
Corporation, Laureate Education, Bayer Diabetes, and Canon USA. She holds a BS Degree
in Business Administration concentration in Human Resources, an MA Degree in Organizational
Management, and pursuing her Doctor of Business Administration. Elizabeth brings a
wide variety of experience from M&A Integration, Strategic Business Partner, Talent
Management, Employee Engagement, and Development. Elizabeth also supports SHRM College
Relation efforts.
Monica Gavino, Professor
Office: BT 662
Email: monica.gavino@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3575
Dr. Monica Gavino teaches in the human resources management program as well in the MBA program. She received her doctorate in Human Resources Management from the University of Illinois at Chicago and her MBA from Roosevelt University in Chicago. She has experience in the HR field as a human resources executive and consultant. Her primary areas of interest and research include employee engagement, human resource practices and employee and organizational outcomes, diversity, equity, and inclusion in organizations and institutions of higher ed, and student success factors in Hispanic Serving Institutions. She has published her research in Human Resource Management, Journal of Business Diversity, Management Research Review, Management Teaching Review, Journal of Hispanic Higher Education, The International Journal of Organizational Diversity, The Business Journal of Hispanic Research, and Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion: an International Journal, the Academy of Entrepreneurship Journal, and Journal of Women’s Entrepreneurship and Education. She is currently the Faculty Advisor for the Latino Business Student Association and served as Faculty Fellow for the Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center.
Andrea Geissinger, Assistant Professor
Office: BT 655
Email: andrea.geissinger@sjsu.edu
Dr. Andrea Geissinger is an Assistant Professor at the School of Management, Lucas
College and Graduate School of Business at San José State University. Her research
draws on sociological institutionalism and organizational theory to explore how and
when organizational phenomena mobilize, challenge, or reconfigure cultural ideas (such
as, for instance, the sharing economy or community) for strategic or symbolic purposes.
She holds a Ph.D. in Business Administration from Örebro University School of Business
(Sweden), an M.Sc. from Stockholm Business School (Sweden), and a B.A. from Ludwig-Maximilians-University
Munich (Germany). Before joining SJSU, she completed postdoctoral training at Stanford
University (SCANCOR) and held a faculty position at the American University of Sharjah
(UAE). Earlier in her career, she worked in management consulting. Her teaching interests
include strategy, management, entrepreneurship,innovation, and organization theory.
Lucille Headrick, Assistant Professor
Office: BT 651
Email:lucy.headrick@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-1342
Dr. Lucille “Lucy” Headrick is an assistant professor in the School of Management at San José State University. She holds a Ph.D. and Master’s degree in Human Resources and Industrial Relations (H.R.I.R.) from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a Bachelor’s degree from Saint Louis University. Lucy’s research examines psychological mechanisms of work stress on health-related behavior, recovery, and work-life boundary management within various temporal (e.g., daily, weekly) and social contexts (e.g., teachers, firefighters). Her research also focuses on identifying psychosocial factors that alleviate or aggravate these psychological mechanisms. Her work has been published in leading journals such as the Journal of Business and Psychology, Journal of Applied Psychology, and Journal of Organizational Behavior. Her accomplishments have been recognized through numerous awards, including the Organizational Behavior division of the Academy of Management’s Best Dissertation-Based Paper (2021) and Outstanding Practical Implications for Management Award (2015). Additionally, she was the recipient of the 2023 Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Distinguished Early Career Teaching Award.
Mike Hill, Lecturer
Office: BT 655
Email: mike.hill@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-2792
Dr. Mike Hill is the Sr. Director of Integrated Talent Management at Applied Materials Company. He has over 30 years of experience in Human Resources and talent development. He holds a Masters in Education, MBA, and Ph.D. in Human and Organization Development. He is currently focused on executive assessment and leadership development. He has also held the position of Board President for a non-profit focused on grade school students keeping up with their classmates. He has consulted with a wide variety of organizations helping them to build leadership teams, set strategies, and solve organizational issues including organizational design. He has traveled extensively in Europe and Asia and lived abroad in Germany while building a new factory.
Susanna Khavul, Director & Professor
Office: BT 359
Email: susanna.khavul@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3502
Yeonka Kim, Assistant Professor
Office: BT 554
Email: yeonka.kim@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-1486
Dr. Yeonka (Sophia) Kim is an Assistant Professor in the School of Management at San José State University. She received her Ph.D. in Business Administration from the University of Minnesota (Concentration: Organizational Behavior & Human Resources), her Master in Industrial and Labor Relations from Cornell University (Concentration: Human Resources & Organizations), and her B.A. in Social Studies Education from Ewha Womans University. Before joining San José State University, she worked as an Assistant Professor at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse (tenured and promoted to Associate Professor in July of 2022) and an Assistant Professor at San Francisco State University. Her research focuses on diversity, work-life interface, identity, and emotions in organizations. She is passionate about understanding how diverse individuals can thrive in their work and non-work lives and how organizations can create an effective, inclusive, and emotionally healthy work environment through diversity initiatives and HR practices. She has published papers in various outlets, including the Academy of Management Journal, Journal of Applied Psychology, and Journal of Psychology. Her work experience as a manager in the chemical film and telecommunication industries has enriched her research and teaching in HR/OB. She has served in various roles to improve diversity, equity, and inclusion on and off campus.
Tanvi Kothari, Professor
Office: BT 355
Email: tanvi.kothari@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3577
Dr. Tanvi Kothari, Ph.D. is a Professor of International Business and Strategic
Management. Dr. Kothari’s areas of research interests include --
innovations originating in emerging markets, migrant entrepreneurship,
scaling of social innovations and strategic impact of digitization. She
contributes substantially as a scholar and influencer. Dr. Kothari actively
provides strategic and research expertise to aspiring entrepreneurs, angel
investors, commercial real estate investors and digital startups in emerging
markets. She has also served as the Director of the MBA Programs and the
Interim Accreditation Director at the LCob. Before joining SJSU she was a
faculty member at the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Temple
University and has held management and research positions with Thomas
Cook, Philadelphia Marriott, Melrose Hotel Co., and the National
Laboratory of Tourism & eCommerce.
Gretchen Vogelgesang Lester, Professor
Office: BT 661
Email: gretchen.lester@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3579*
(*Email is preferred.)
Dr. Vogelgesang Lester is a professor at San Jose State University. Her research interests include multi-domain leadership development, transparency between leaders and followers, and leader identity in the sensemaking process. She teaches applied organizational behavior, strategy, and leadership at the graduate and undergraduate levels. She recently published a textbook: Applied Organizational Behavior and Leadership: An Identity Approach. She has published articles in Academy of Management Learning & Education, The Leadership Quarterly, Human Resource Development Review, Journal of Leadership and Organization Studies. She holds a doctoral degree from the University of Nebraska, MBA from DePaul University, and a degree in organizational behavior and human resources from Miami University. Dr. Vogelgesang Lester’s research interests include transparency in leader communication, leadership in multiple domains, trust, and leadership development.
Jingmei Li, Lecturer
Office: BT 560
Email: jingmei.li@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-6213
Jingmei Li is an HR leader with over 20 years of experience, worked in both US and China. She has expertise in cross culture management, global rewards and benefits design and strategy, market trend intelligence, global governance, change management and mergers and acquisitions. She has been with PWC, Oracle, Sun Microsystems and Applied Materials. Jingmei served on the board of Silicon Valley Employer Forum. Jingmei obtained her MBA from University of South Florida and B.S in Economics from Northwest University in China. Jingmei teaches Managing and Developing People for the early career MBA program; she also teaches management and international business courses at San Francisco State University.
Jacob Linetsky, Lecturer
Office: BT 660
Email: jacob.linetsky@sjsu.edu
Jacob works at NVIDIA, as part of the Real Estate and Site Services team, where he negotiates both domestic and international real estate transactions. Previously, he worked in similar roles at Oracle and Palantir. He started his career as a real estate lawyer in Berkeley, CA. He holds an MBA from Columbia Business School, a JD from UC Law San Francisco, and a BA from Columbia University.
Arvinder Loomba, Professor
Office: BT 657
Email: arvinder.loomba@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3578
Dr. Arvinder Loomba is a Professor of International Business at SJSU with a PhD in
Operations Management from USC. He also holds an MBA and a B.E. in Mechanical Engineering.
A certified PMP, he has taught and consulted globally across hi-tech, healthcare,
and biotech sectors. His academic expertise spans international business, product
development, sustainable supply chains, and global project/team management. A former
Fulbright Specialist and NIH Sabbatical Fellow, he has held leadership roles at SJSU,
consulted, and delivered keynotes globally. He is editor-in-chief of JGBRP, serves
on multiple editorial boards, and is widely published on globalization and sustainability
topics.
Nancy Long, Lecturer
Office: BT 552
Email: nancy.long@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8045
Nancy Long is a highly accomplished global human resources executive who was most recently part of the executive leadership team at Hitachi Data Systems, where she held the position of Executive Vice President and Chief HR Officer. Prior to joining Hitachi Data Systems in 2006, she was Senior VP of HR at O’Connor Hospital in San Jose, CA. She also worked at HP for 24 years where her most recent role was Vice President of Human Resources for Global Marketing. She is the recipient of several industry awards such as HR Executive of the Year (HR Symposium, Silicon Valley) and Mentor of the Year (Stevie Awards) during her tenure as an HR leader. Her unique background brings a business acumen that is unusual among Human Resources professionals.
Nathaniel Lupton, Associate Professor
Office: BT 461
Email: nathaniel.lupton@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-6443
Dr. Nathaniel C. Lupton is an Associate Professor at San José State University’s Lucas
College of Business. He earned his Ph.D. in Business Administration from the University
of Western Ontario (now Western U.) and holds an MBA and B.Comm. from Carleton University.
His research examines how institutional environments and digitalization shape international
business strategy, with recent work focusing on AI-driven innovation and digital trade
restrictions. A dedicated educator, he integrates experiential learning, real-world
cases, and generative AI into courses on global strategy and international business.
He has led student immersion programs in Latin America and Asia. Dr. Lupton contributes
actively to academic service, serving on curriculum and research committees, mentoring
students, and reviewing for top journals. He is a Master Teacher Award recipient and
committed to inclusive, evidence-based pedagogy and scholarship.
Matthew Maguire, Associate Professor
Office: BT 658
Email: matthew.maguire@sjsu.edu
Website: https://www.matthewmaguire.org
Dr. Matthew Maguire is an associate professor in the Management School at San José State University, with a background in comparative political economy, business-government relations, and corporate social responsibility. Matt has a Ph.D. in political science from Boston University, an M.Sc. in comparative politics from the London School of Economics, and a B.A. in history from Cornell University. He has traveled extensively throughout Europe for fieldwork and has held visiting positions at the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies in Cologne and the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna. His current work examines the regulation of corporate non-financial reporting and the public discourse around consumer data protection.
Naresh Malik, Lecturer
Email: naresh.malik@sjsu.edu
Naresh brings a 30-year track record in global leadership roles in Fortune 100 companies
and at startups. He has led multiple transformation initiatives and scaled emerging
technology businesses from scratch. He brings a multicultural perspective having worked
and lived in USA, Europe, and Asia. Naresh is currently a transformation partner and
executive coach to senior leaders and their teams at large corporations and at high
growth startups. He has also been serving on the advisory board of the Lucas College
of Graduate School of Business at San Jose State University in California since 2014
and is a mentor to startups UC Berkeley’s Skydeck accelerator.
Gita Mathur, Professor
Office: BT 358
Email: gita.mathur@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3553
Dr. Gita Mathur is a Professor in the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business at San Jose State University. Her professional interest lies in organizational capabilities for technological innovation and product development. Her teaching in the MBA, Master of Biotechnology, and undergraduate programs has included technological innovation, product development, project management, strategic management, and management of teams. She has served as Associate Director of Management Curriculum for the Master of Biotechnology Program (2010-2013) and on the Steering Committee of the Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship. Prior to SJSU, she held engineering and management positions in the semiconductor industry with Harris Corporation (1985-1991) and was a principal with the management consulting firm PRTM (1996-2000). Her degrees include BTech and MTech in Electrical Engineering from IIT Delhi; PhD in Electrical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; MBA from Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley; and DBA in Technology and Operations Management from Harvard Business School.
Elisa Mattarelli, Professor
Office: BT 654
Email: elisa.mattarelli@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3569
Dr. Elisa Mattarelli is a Professor at the School of Management of SJSU. Previously, she was an Associate Professor at the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia in Italy. She was a Fulbright visiting professor at Stanford University in 2016-2017 and did a post doc at the University of Arizona in 2005. She received her PhD in Management Engineering from the University of Padua and her Master in Management Engineering from the University of Bologna in Italy. Her research interests include team dynamics, identity processes, and collaborative technology use, with a focus on distributed and knowledge-intensive organizational contexts.
Mark McKenna, Lecturer
Office: BT 452
Email: mark.mckenna@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-1758
Mark Reade McKenna has taught courses on international business, emerging markets, globalization and cross-cultural management at San Jose State University and Hult International Business School in San Francisco. His research interests and professional expertise are in the management of social change in developing and emerging economies, including the facilitation of private sector and civil society engagement in public policy reform, and the promotion of democratic governance and the rule of law. Formerly with The Asia Foundation, he served in numerous roles in San Francisco and South Asia, including as country director for the Foundation’s Sri Lanka office. While there he served for three years as president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Sri Lanka.
Shari Moore, Lecturer
Email: shari.moore@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-2254
Shari Moore is an established and experienced HR leader with an extensive track record
as an HR executive. Currently, Shari is the HR Director/Head of HR for Advocates for
Life Skills & Opportunity in Portland, Oregon. In her previous roles she has been
Senior Associate Director of HR at Stanford University, Vice President and CPO at
the Institute on Aging in San Francisco, Vice President, HR Business Partners at RMS,
SVP and CHRO for Jasper, VP of HR for Product Operations at NetApp, VP of HR for Global
Sales, Support and Services at Hitachi Data Systems and VP of HR and Administration
for Performant Financial Corporation. She served for seven years on the Dean's Advisory
Council at Cal Poly and five years on the Board of the Bay Area Women's Sports Initiative.
She has also taught part-time at Golden Gate University in the MS in HR program. Shari
earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration, concentrating in Accounting,
from Cal Poly and an MBA from Yale University. She holds multiple certifications in
HR including SHRM–SCP, Senior Professional in Human Resources and Prosci Change Management.
Elizabeth Mullen, Associate Professor
Office: BT 659
Email: elizabeth.mullen@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-7883
Dr. Elizabeth Mullen researches the roles that people’s emotions, values, and moral convictions play in shaping their perceptions of fairness and reactions to transgressions. In addition, she investigates how individuals regulate and evaluate their own and others’ ethical behavior. Her work has appeared in numerous scholarly journals and has been funded by the National Science Foundation. She was formerly an Associate Editor for Social Justice Research and currently serves on the editorial boards at Analyses of Social Issues and Public Policy, and Social Justice Research. Prior to joining SJSU, she held faculty positions at George Washington University and the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Wiliam (Bill) Musgrave, Lecturer
Office: BT 353
Email: william.musgrave@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8024
Dr. Bill Musgrave has lectured and operated in numerous countries in Asia, Africa,
Latin America, Europe, and Eastern Europe. Formerly, he was the CEO of The Enterprise
Network of Silicon Valley during the Dotcom era. He has been an executive in the electronics
industry and is a former U.S. Navy Captain in the Supply Corps. Recently he shared
his leadership experience with the publication of The Leaders We Need. At SJSU he
teaches courses in global entrepreneurship, management and organizational behavior,
and strategic management. Previously he led the establishment of SJSU’s Silicon Valley
Center for Entrepreneurship and an entrepreneurship elective track in the MBA program.
Dr. Musgrave holds DBA and MBA degrees from The George Washington University and a
BS in Education from Texas State University.
Yeonji No, Lecturer
Office: BT 656
Email: yeonji.no@sjsu.edu
Dr. Yeonji No received her Ph.D. in Public Policy from Georgia Institute of Technology. Her research interests include innovation, patenting, science and engineering workforce, innovation policy and international business. Her research has been published in Nature Biotechnology and Journal of Business Research. She teaches Strategic Management, Fundamentals of Management and Organizational Behavior and Global Dimensions of Business.
Mariah Norell, Lecturer
Office: BT 656
Email: mariah.norell@sjsu.edu
Website: https://mariahnorell.com
Mariah Norell is a scientist-practitioner in the People Analytics space with over
5 years of consulting and data science experience at companies like Aon (Radford),
Amazon Web Services, and Atlassian. She received her MS in Industrial and Organizational
Psychology from San Jose State University and her BA in Psychology from CSU, Sacramento
where she graduated with honors.
Virpi Outila, Assistant Professor
Office: BT 463
Email: virpi.outila@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-4132
Dr. Virpi Outila is an Assistant Professor in International Business at the Lucas
College of Business at San Jose State University. She received her PhD from Aalto
University School of Business, Helsinki, Finland. Her research interests center around
people management in cross-cultural contexts, headquarter-subsidiary relations, practice/knowledge
transfer in multinational enterprises and emerging economies. In her research, Dr.
Outila uses qualitative research methods with a special focus on language sensitive
research methods. Her research has been published in leading journals of management
and international business, such as Organization Studies, Journal of World Business,
Journal of International Management, Management and Organization Review, and Critical
perspectives on International Business. Dr. Outila teaches courses in International
Business domain, such as Global Dimensions of Business as well as Cross-Cultural Management
and Global Leadership.
Ash Padwal, Lecturer
Office: BT 555
Email: ashit.padwal@sjsu.edu
Ash has 25+ years of experience in the fields of law, regulatory affairs, compliance, corporate governance and risk management. Over the course of his career, he has held a variety of positions in the high tech industry ranging from CEO to CRO to COO of multinational companies. He advises executives on information privacy and cybersecurity issues. At various times, he has served on the boards of Aerospace Industries Association, Silicon Valley Leadership Group, American Electronics Association, Technet, US-ASEAN Business Council and UC Merced Foundation. Ash is a graduate of the law school at Santa Clara University, and also has an undergraduate degree in Electronics & Telecom Engineering.
Rolanda Pollard, Lecturer
Office: BT 664
Email: rolanda.pollard@sjsu.edu
Dr. Rolanda P. Farrington Pollard, holds graduate degrees in Business Administration (MBA) and Organizational Psychology (MA and Ph.D.) and has over 20 years of teaching and consulting experience. She teaches a wide range of Organizational Theory and Management courses, in three departments, at the undergraduate and graduate levels. As a consultant, she has facilitated strategic planning, team-building, and leadership development processes for companies such as The Gap, Sun Microsystems, 3COM, Via Rehabilitation, San Jose State University, and the American Red Cross. Research areas include policy work for the City of San Jose, organizational communication, online teaching pedagogy, women entrepreneurs, organizational culture, organizational change, the innovation-leadership relationship, family business, and succession planning.
Sarika Pruthi, Professor
Office: BT 462
Email: sarika.pruthi@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-6540
Dr. Sarika Pruthi is a Professor of International Entrepreneurship. She researches
immigrant, transnational, and international social entrepreneurship and venture capital.
Among her recent publications is a textbook, Global Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
Sarika teaches undergraduate and MBA courses in Entrepreneurship and International
Business and in SJSU’s interdisciplinary HonorsX program that she also co-founded.
She is an editorial board member of the Journal of Entrepreneurship and Innovation
in Emerging Economies, Lucas College of Business (LCoB) Program Director of SJSU Online,
and Public Voices Fellow of The OpEd Project. In 2022, Sarika earned the LCoB Distinguished
Teaching Award. She has received recognitions for outstanding research, service, and
overall excellence from the prestigious Academy of International Business, the Academy
of Management, and Phi Kappa Phi Honors society. Sarika has taught and researched
at King’s College London, University of London, and the University of Nottingham,
United Kingdom, where she also earned her MA and PhD.
Iris Quan, Professor
Office: BT 459
Email: xiaohong.quan@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3542
Dr. Quan is a Professor of Entrepreneurship at the Lucas College and Graduate School
of Business. Prior to joining SJSU, she was a SPRIE Fellow at Stanford University
following the completion of her Ph.D. at UC Berkeley. Her research focuses on entrepreneurship,
innovation, and technology management. Dr. Quan served as a board member of the Administrative
Committee of the IEEE Technology and Engineering Management Society (TEMS), where
she co-organized several flagship international conferences, including TEMSCON. She
currently serves on the editorial boards of several academic journals in innovation
and entrepreneurship, such as Technovation. In addition, Dr. Quan is an investment
partner at TSVC, a Silicon Valley–based venture capital firm. She also serves as Director
of the Center for Global R&D and Innovation (GLORAD) Silicon Valley.
Eric Quick, Lecturer
Office: BT 560
Email: eric.quick@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8048
Eric Quick is a serial entrepreneur, a social mission driven leader, a podcaster and producer, and an autism advocate. Eric Quick has over 15 years in early-stage Food Tech, Fintech, and e-commerce companies. Currently, he is the Founder & CEO of Cloud 9 Performance Solutions, LLC. Eric has led global bottling operations at SOURCE Global PBC, founded PocketCFO PBC, and launched Cloud 9 Leadership Academy. Recognized for his innovation and leadership, Eric holds a patent and numerous awards in health, nutrition, and design. He has hosted over 50 episodes of "Bathtime 2 Boardroom" and holds advanced degrees from USC, University of Redlands, and CSU Chico.
Gary D. Radine, Lecturer
Office: BT 652
Email: gary.radine@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3554
Gary D. Radine joined SJSU’s Lucas College and Graduate School of Business after 37 years in Chief Executive Officer roles with Delta Dental, a dental insurance enterprise. He built a mid-Atlantic operation from $6 million in annual revenue to $500 million, merged that entity to create a 15-state operation headquartered in California and brought that entity from $3 billion in annual revenue to $8 billion in “zero sum game” markets. With 97% renewal rates, the entity grew to cover 35 million enrollees across 25,000 purchasers plus started a new company in Mexico, covering 1 million there. He spearheaded a multi-vendor technology turnover without loss of market position. He earned his Bachelor’s degree from San José State University and his Master’s degree from CSU-Dominguez Hills.
Sumita Raghuram, Professor
Office: BT 664
Email: sumita.raghuram@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3567
Dr. Sumita Raghuram is the Alan and Lori Kessler Endowed Professor in Human Resource Management and joined the vibrant SJSU community in 2018. Dr. Sumita Raghuram received her Ph.D. from University of Minnesota in Human Resource Management. She then was a faculty member at Fordham University, New York and at Pennsylvania State University, Pennsylvania. With over 30 years of teaching and research experience, she teaches in the Human Resource Management Program at SJSU. Her primary research area is remote work which she has examined in great depth since 1993. She has examined the impact of remote work on employee identity, work life balance, knowledge sharing, promotions and performance ratings. Her research also offers solutions to problems associated with remote work. In addition, she studies international human resource management and the worklife of tech workers. This research has been published in journals such as the Academy of Management Annals, Organization Science, Journal of Management, Personnel Psychology, and Journal of Organization Behavior. Sumita has also been a visiting faculty at international business schools such as Copenhagen Business School, Bologna Business School, and Indian School of Business.
Alaka Rao, Professor
Office: BT 663
Email: alaka.rao@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3417
Dr. Alaka Rao’s research centers on the management of complex collaborations across geographical and cultural divides. Her past research focuses on how local and global pressures influence the performance of global outsourcing relationships. This research examines the critical role of national culture, employee cognition, and trust in the management of global collaborations. Dr. Rao has also conducted research on how managers exchange and build trust in countries lacking institutional support. Her recent work centers on understanding the micro-foundations of ambidexterity in multinational corporations and bridging the macro-micro divide between the organizational strategic mandate and individuals’ cognitive, emotional and behavioral responses. Her work has been published in management journals, such as Strategic Organization and the Journal of International Business Studies.
Rick Rasmussen, Lecturer
Office: BT 652
Email: rick.rasmussen@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8047
Rick Rasmussen is a Silicon Valley native with direct experience and thought leadership across industry, government, venture capital and academia. He has been on executive teams of three separate companies that started with zero revenue, raised rounds from leading VCs, became public companies that gained Fortune 500 status, and sold for a collective $12B. Mr. Rasmussen connects governments, and economic development agencies with the vast resources available throughout Silicon Valley. He helps to build entrepreneurial ecosystems worldwide, including advisory work with nearly 20 governments and development agencies with a particular focus on post-Soviet economies. Mr. Rasmussen currently serves as an Industry Fellow at University of California Berkeley, Adjunct Faculty at Santa Clara University and Faculty for Campus.edu. Mr. Rasmussen has a dual MBA degree with Honors from UC Berkeley and Columbia University. He earned a BS in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science with Highest Honors from University of California, Berkeley.
Carol Reade, Professor
Office: BT 361
Email: carol.reade@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-1343
Dr. Carol Reade is a professor at San José State University’s School of Management.
She received her doctorate from the London School of Economics and Political Science,
and master’s from Sophia University, Tokyo. Her research lies at the intersection
of culture, societal conflict and sustainability, focused on OB/HRM issues related
to the global mobility of employees and their lived experiences in multicultural,
challenging and dangerous environments. Her work is published in the Journal of Management,
Journal of International Management, Journal of International Business Policy, among
others. She and coauthors received the prestigious Academy of Management’s 2024 Carolyn
Dexter Award for best international paper. She teaches international management, Japanese
management, and negotiation, and has been a visiting professor at Sophia University
and Kyoto University, Japan, Postgraduate Institute of Management, Sri Lanka, University
of Göttingen, Germany, and the London School of Economics, UK.
Simon Rodan, Professor
Office: BT 457
Email: simon.rodan@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3415
Dr. Simon Rodan has an MBA and a Ph.D. from INSEAD, France. Prior to joining the Lucas College in 2002, he was a visiting scholar at Stanford University (1999-2002), worked as a research Associate at INSEAD (1991-1994), as a Systems Engineer (1982-1986) and as a Marketing Representative (1986-1989) at IBM (UK). His research has spanned topics including structural holes in social networks, social network metrics, high school course-taking patterns, knowledge exchange, organizational learning, perceptions of risk associated with Internet of Things (IoT) devices and the relative strength of industry vs. firm effects in firm financial performance. He has served on a wide range of committees at all levels, has chaired the college Curriculum Committee, the campus General Education Advisory Committee, the campus Sabbatical Leaves Committee, and the Academic Affairs committee of the Statewide Academic Senate.
Ronald Roman, Lecturer
Office: BT 560
Email: ronald.roman@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8051
Dr. Ronald M. Roman teaches and conducts research in the areas of corporate responsibility, sustainability, and business ethics. His research has received awards of excellence including ‘Best Case of the Year’ award given by the Case Research Journal. Ron is a member of the advisory board for SJSU’s Green Ninja Project, which educates young people about our changing climate. Additionally, he is an active impact investor who uses the power of the shareholder proposal to effect change in organizations. Ron received his Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh. Prior to pursuing a Ph.D., Ron worked in corporate finance and also co-founded a computer education and consulting firm.
Neeraj Sahejpal, Lecturer
Office: BT 656
Email: neeraj.sahejpal@sjsu.edu
With 30+ years of experience, Neeraj Sahejpal has worked in startup and public companies in both business and engineering roles. With a proven track record in leadership roles with Energous, Broadcom, and PMC-Sierra, Neeraj possesses a depth of industry knowledge and experience that brings out the best in any team. Neeraj has earned his bachelor's degree in Electronics from NIT (India), MSCE, and MBA from Santa Clara University. Neeraj is a lifelong learner and has completed executive education at Stanford Graduate School of Business and MIT Sloan.
Ginevra Scherini, Lecturer
Office: BT 660
Email: ginevra.schenrini@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-5658
Ginevra Scherini has worked in Human Resources for Silicon Valley companies including Oracle, SAP, and Atlassian in disciplines spanning across People Analytics, Learning and Development, Workforce Planning, Survey Design, Employee Research, and Talent Management. She also has experience as a Member Education / Staff Development Representative at the California School Employees' Association union. She received her Master of Science in Industrial and Organizational Psychology from San José State University and her Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and Italian from the University of California, Los Angeles. She enjoys teaching Workforce Planning, Staffing, Retention, and Labor Relations in the School of Management, along with Statistics, Psychometrics, and Industrial-Organizational Psychology in the Psychology department at San José State University.
Tyler Shewey, Lecturer
Office: BT 564
Email: tyler.shewey@sjsu.edu
Tyler A. Shewey is a Partner at Berliner Cohen LLP, specializing in tax and business matters. He advises on individual and business income tax planning, tax controversy matters, and business entity formation and governance. His clients range from startups to established companies in various industries. In addition to his practice, Mr. Shewey is a part-time lecturer at San Jose State University, teaching “Legal Environment of Business”.
Thomas Shirley, Lecturer
Office: BT 656
Email: thomas.shirley@sjsu.edu
Dr. Thomas Shirley earned his Ph.D. at UC Davis and his Masters of Business Administration in International Business and a Masters of Science in Computer Information Systems from the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida. Prior to his role at SJSU, he served as a mergers and acquisitions advisor and an executive with McKinsey, KPMG, and General Electric across North America, Europe, Asia, and Latin America. He is currently active as a consultant and a board member of a variety of multinational organizations.
Parker "Carlos" Singh, Lecturer
Office: BT 564
Email: carlos.singh@sjsu.edu
Carlos Singh is a Lecturer at the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business, teaching graduate and undergraduate business law and ethics courses; he also teaches in the Justice Studies Department. On behalf of the University, he serves as a media expert on legal matters. Carlos was educated at UCLA (BA), Georgetown University (JD), and the Harvard Business School (Corporate Executive Program on corporate governance and board leadership). He is a former white-collar federal prosecutor, as well as a constitutional, appellate, and civil trial attorney for the U.S. Department of Justice. He advised global high-tech, financial, and pharmaceutical companies on developing/enhancing their corporate compliance and ethics programs. He served as Director of Compliance and Ethics and BSA/OFAC officer for a Silicon Valley financial services company, and later as an in-house senior global counsel for a technology firm. Carlos has spoken at conferences and published articles on white-collar, compliance and ethics, and bribery/corruption matters. He currently teaches law at Lincoln Law School of San Jose and is a guest instructor at Stanford Law School’s Trial Practice Program. He is also the Executive Director for the East Side Education Foundation in San Jose which partners with the University in its Eastside Spartan Promise Program.
Edward Smithers, Lecturer
Office: BT 660
Email: edward.smithers@sjsu.edu
Edward Smithers is a 1981 graduate of the University of California at Berkeley. He earned his J.D. from the Santa Clara University School of Law in 1985, where he was on the Dean’s List from 1982-85 and an Emery Law Scholarship recipient. He served as a law clerk to Judge William A. Ingram, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, from 1986-87. He has practiced law in Santa Clara County since 1985 and has taught as a Lecturer at the Santa Clara University School of Law since 2005. He is a member of The Honorable William A. Ingram American Inn of Court and sits on the Board of Directors of the St. Thomas More Society of Santa Clara County.
Janet Tan, Lecturer
Office: BT 452
Email: janet.tan@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3123
Dr. Janet Tan earned her PhD in International Political Economy from National Chengchi University of Taiwan, her Masters of Engineering Management from Santa Clara University, and BS in Computer Science and Mathematics from San Jose State University. She holds a patent in Speech Input and Database System. She started a company marketing speech recognition dictation system in the medical industry partnering with Philips Electronics, and she has been coaching many entrepreneurs in their startup businesses. Dr. Tan is currently a member of Microeconomic of Competitiveness faculty network headed by Professor Michael Porter at Harvard Business School focusing on her research in strategy and competitiveness. She teaches strategic management, operations management, managing in the global economy, and quantitative analysis.
Terry Thompson, Lecturer
Office: BT 553
Email: terry.thompson@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-2615
Graduate of San Jose State University. I have worked in the Hospitality Industry for many years. Formerly, restaurant owner of local restaurants. General Manager for Doubletree Hotels and some independents. I have been teaching for over thirty years and twelve years at SJSU.
Experienced in Executive Management, Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Human Resource Management, Food and Beverage operations, and Hotel and Restaurant consulting. Practicing Martial Arts instructor for over forty years. Women’s Fast Pitch Softball coach, painter, and author of three books on Management on Amazon Kindle. Grandfather to two teen girls.
Meg Virick, Associate Dean and Professor
Office: BT 950
Email: m.virick@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3411
Dr. Meghna Virick has a Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Arlington, a Masters in Industrial Relations and Personnel Management from XLRI, India and an MBA from Texas Christian University. Dr. Virick has worked in Human Resources in multiple organizations for six years before joining academia. Previously, Dr. Virick has served as the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies and is currently the Associate Dean for Faculty and Research. Her primary areas of research are in the area of unemployment/underemployment, telework, and gender and race-related issues in HR practices such as talent and succession planning.
Chunlei Wang, Associate Professor
Office: BT 653
Email: chunlei.wang@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-2775
Dr. Chunlei Wang teaches strategic management courses at undergraduate and graduate
levels. His research interests include social network analysis, knowledge networks,
innovation generation and diffusion, and economic sociology. He published a paper
with his collaborators on exploratory innovation in the Academy of Management Journal.
He received a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy from Peking University, a Master of Arts
in Sociology from the Ohio State University, a Master of Arts in Sociology and a PhD
in Sociology from Stanford University. He is married and has a daughter. He enjoys
spending time with his wife, daughter, and church family.
Pamela Wells, Lecturer
Office: BT 656
Email: pamela.wells@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-8054
Pamela Wells received her M.S. from San Jose State in 2005. She is a Managing Partner
of Critical Moments Safety Training, LLC. Her activities on campus include Faculty
Advisor for the Burmese Myanmar Associated Students and Associate Director for CommUniverCity.
Pamela also serves on the Critical Thinking Task Force for the Lucas College and Graduate
School of Business. She is a recipient of San Jose State University’s Master Teacher
Award.
Emeritus Faculty
George Whaley, Emeritus
Office: BT 560
Email: george.whaley@sjsu.edu
Dr. George L. Whaley is an Emeritus Professor of Human Resource Management at San
José State University. Over the past thirty years, he has authored numerous case studies,
primarily in the high technology and biotechnology industries. Professor Whaley holds
a B.S. in Engineering Mathematics, an M.B.A. from the University of Arizona, and a
Ph.D. in Organizational Behavior from the University of Colorado. He has individual
contributor and management experience in government and private industry and moved
to teach and consult as a second career. Professor Whaley serves on the editorial
boards of several academic journals, is the former co‐editor of the Business Case
Journal, and was appointed emeriti editor of the Society of Case Research journals.
His research focuses on Strategic Human Resource Management, Sustainability, Leadership,
Diversity, and Entrepreneurship. He teaches Organizational Behavior and Management
part-time for the Masters of Biotechnology program in the College of Science and the
Masters of Business Administration program in the Lucas College and Graduate School
of Business at San José State University.
Robert Wood, Emeritus
Office: BT 664
Email: robert.wood@sjsu.edu
Phone: 408-924-3573
Dr. Robert Chapman Wood studies large-scale innovation and creation of reliable, useful large technology systems. His research examines how leaders have overcome inertia and made innovation work, sometimes creating dramatic improvements for society. His research has appeared in Harvard Business Review, MIT Sloan Management Review, Industrial and Corporate Change, Technology Review, and Strategy & Leadership. Wood teaches Strategic Management, Global Management, and Strategic Thinking. Dr. Wood is a housing activist who is chairman of the Housing Committee of the California Faculty Association, San Jose State chapter. He believes government actions and political decisions have caused greater San Jose’s housing crisis and such actions must change. At the same time, he urges the city – which has a weak business tax base – to seek the same kind of state support that cities in other states get to enable them to permit housing. Prior to his doctoral studies, Wood was a journalist for more than 20 years. His work appeared in such publications as Forbes, the Financial Times of London, and the New York Times. He is a former associate editor of Inc. magazine. Much of Wood’s journalism dealt with Asia and with Asian-influenced management techniques. Before coming to San Jose, Wood was a postdoctoral research fellow at Harvard Business School in the Program on Organizational Change. He completed his doctorate in Management Policy and Strategy at Boston University, where his thesis dealt with how companies begin innovating effectively.