Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mgmt/about-us/maps.php
Title: Maps and Directions
Type: HTML

Maps and Directions
Welcome to the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business, home to the School of Management.
Jump to:
Our College Facilities
Getting to our College
Vehicle Parking
Bicycle Parking
Our College Facilities
The SoM office is conveniently located in Suite 650 of the Business Tower (BT), serving as the central hub for the college’s administrative department and faculty offices, ensuring seamless coordination and communication.
Constructed in 1971, the Business Tower is directly connected (via a walkway) to the Boccardo Business Center (BBC).
The BBC houses the Jack Holland Student Success Center (JHSSC), a dedicated space offering counseling and advising services to all our business majors and minors. Additionally, the BBC is where our academic classrooms are located, providing a conducive learning environment for our students.
Whether you’re a prospective student exploring our programs, a current student seeking resources, or a visiting professional, finding your way to our college is straightforward and easy.
Getting to our College:
Below is our campus map, highlighting the nearest parking garage and the Business Tower.
We advise that you park in the North Parking Garage, past the second level, in the spaces marked as general for visitors and students.
Please note: A valid parking permit is required at all times while parked on campus. Pay immediately after you parked. Parking is enforced 7 days a week/24 hours a day.Parking:
There are several parking options available for visitors. The most convenient option
is the SJSU Parking Garage, which is located directly across from the Business Tower.
You can also park in the Metered Parking Lot on South 10th Street.
Daily or Short Term Parking Permits can be purchased the ParkMobile App or self-service Permit Paystations at each parking garage and lot. Details on permits
and pricing can be here.
For invited guests, please get in touch with the SoM office via email to arrange a parking permit on your behalf.
Bicycle Parking On Campus
You can park your bike at any of the open bike racks. The open racks are purchased by UPD Parking Services and maintained by SJSU Facilities Development and Operation (FD&O).
There is one bike rack available near the front staircase of the Business Tower.
For additional security, you can park your bike at any of the six on campus Bicycle Enclosures managed by AS Transportation Solutions. Bike parking is for daily use. Over night parking or long term storage is not permitted. Visit our bicycle enclosure page for information on how to get an access key.
Additional Tips:
- If you're planning to visit campus during peak hours, which are generally Mondays through Thursdays, between 8:30 am and 2:00 pm, please allow extra time for traffic and parking.
- The SJSU campus is large and can be confusing to navigate, so be sure to give yourself plenty of time to get to your destination.