Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mgmt/about-us/director-message.php
Title: Director's Message
Type: HTML

Director's Message
Welcome to the School of Management in the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business!
The School of Management (SoM) is a large and welcoming home to nearly 65 faculty members,1,850 BS/BA majors whose concentrations are in Management, Human Resource Management, Entrepreneurship, and International Business.
We teach over 200 classes per year across undergraduate, MBA, Professional MBA and other graduate business programs, including certificates and specialized industry master’s degrees.
Our courses span from organizational theory and behavior, to business, government, and society, to a large portfolio of human resource management courses, as well as entrepreneurship, international business, and include the capstone strategic management course taken by every graduating senior in the Lucas College of Business.
We offer a unique Honors Program and lead the college in business case competitions.
We are also the home of university’s Business Law Faculty and Business Law Certificate
taught by practicing legal professionals. Likewise, we offer an Entrepreneurship and
Innovation Certificate and the Real Estate Certificate.
Our tenure and tenure track faculty maintain robust research programs and regularly
publish in high-quality journals across business, management, and the social sciences.
We value innovative, rigorous, and relevant research that contributes to knowledge
and practice.
Our lecturer faculty brings a wealth of industry experience in consulting, organizational development, human resource management, law, entrepreneurship, international business, finance, leadership, and strategic management.
Our faculty engage in extensive outreach with the business community.
We are the home of three university centers: IPP: Institute for People and Performance,
Silicon Valley Entrepreneurship Center, and GLAC: Silicon Valley Leadership Innovation
Center.
We actively engage with Silicon Valley innovation, management, and human resource professionals and the organizations they lead.
Join us and lead the change and innovation