Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mgmt/courses.php
Title: What We Teach
Type: HTML

What We Teach
Undergraduate Courses
(Not all courses are taught every year. Consult the university schedule for availability and prerequisites.)
BUS3 10 - Discovering Business
BUS3 12 - Business First Year Experience
BUS5 16 - Introduction to Leadership & Innovation
BUS5 40 - Developing Your Entrepreneurial Potential
BUS3 80 - Legal Environment of Business
BUS5 92 - International Program Studies
BUS3 150 - Fundamentals of Human Resource Management
BUS3 151 - Labor Relations
BUS3 152 - Human Resources and Analytics
BUS3 153 - Management of Diversity
BUS3 154 - Workforce Planning, Staffing, and Training
BUS3 155 - Performance Management and Development
BUS3 157 - Legal Issues in Human Resource Management
BUS3 158 - Compensation and Reward Systems
BUS3 159 - Senior Seminar in Human Resource Management
BUS3 160 - Fundamentals of Management and Organizational Behavior
BUS3 161A - Applied Organizational Behavior
BUS3 161B - Organization Theory
BUS5 162 - International and Comparative Management
BUS5 162A - International Business Strategy
BUS5 163 - Management Issues in High Technology Companies
BUS5 163A - Negotiating Globally
BUS5 163B - Business and Innovation in Emerging Economies
BUS5 164 - Doing Business Globally
BUS5 164A - Doing Business in Japan
BUS5 164B - Doing Business in India
BUS5 164C - Doing Business in China
BUS3 165 - Analysis and Design of Teams
BUS5 165A - Global Leadership
BUS5 165B - Leadership & Innovation Practicum
BUS3 166 - Business, Government, and Society
BUS5 167 - Managing Environmental Issues
BUS3 169 - Honors Seminar
BUS3 169B - Honors Practicum
BUS3 180D - Business Strategy Case Competition
BUS5 181 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship
BUS5 182 - Business Plans for New Ventures
BUS5 182A - Startup Founders & Funders
BUS5 183 - Global Entrepreneurship
BUS5 184A - Management of Innovation
BUS5 185 - Family Business Dynamics
BUS3 186 - Professional and Business Ethics
BUS5 186H - Entrepreneurship Laboratory
BUS5 186S - Current Issues in Entrepreneurship
BUS5 186V - Venture Lab
BUS5 187 - Global Dimensions of Business
BUS3 189 - Strategic Management
BUS5 192 - International Program Studies
BUS5 194 - Business Organization and Management of Technology Enterprise
BUS5 196E - Startup Founders and Funders
BUS5 196F - Critical Thinking in Business
BUS5 197 - Special Topics in International Business
Graduate Courses
(Not all courses are taught every year. Consult the university schedule for availability and prerequisites.)
BUS 202 - Managing in the Global Economy
BUS 210 - Developing and Managing People
BUS 250 - Law and Ethics
BUS 252 - Managing Organizational Change
BUS 253 - Negotiation and Conflict Management
BUS 255 - Diversity in the Workplace
BUS 262A - Global Leadership and Innovation
BUS 262B - Global Leadership Development
BUS 265 - Silicon Valley Experience
BUS 268 - Managing Across Cultures
BUS 282A - Management and Organizational Behavior (MBT Program)
BUS 290 - Strategic Thinking
BUS 297D - Teams that Work
BUS 297D - Management of Human Assets
BUS 297D - Non-profit/Social Enterprise Design and Management
BUS 297D - Human Resource Analytics
Undergraduate Courses
BUS3 10 - Discovering Business
Simulates setting up a small business to explore the many facets of an enterprise
(marketing, accounting, finance, management, information systems, etc.). Through self-assessment
and readings, directs students toward career paths that best reflect their personal
aptitudes and interests.
BUS3 12 - Business First Year Experience
Business First Year Experience (BFYE) provides an overview of business areas and offers
practical and professional skills for enhancing life during university and beyond.
Students learn how to manage finances, plan internships and careers, manage stress,
and increase overall happiness and well-being. BFYE connects students with the larger
Lucas College of Business community. BFYE course is required of all first-year business
majors.
BUS5 16 - Introduction to Leadership & Innovation
This interdisciplinary course covers basic theories of leadership and innovation and
investigates key topics that influence contemporary social leadership issues. Students
assess their leadership styles to create personal development plans leading toward
positive, innovative impacts on society.
BUS5 40 - Developing Your Entrepreneurial Potential
This course introduces foundational concepts in innovation and entrepreneurship. It
provides insights into the characteristics and motivations of entrepreneurs, and the
factors that foster an entrepreneurial mind-set and enable individuals to translate
positive attitudes toward entrepreneurship into actual behavior.
BUS3 80 - Legal Environment of Business
Understand the judicial system and dispute resolution with emphasis on the role of
law in purchasing, contracting and administering a business as it impacts the firm’s
constituencies and society as a whole.
BUS5 92 - International Program Studies
Study Abroad and Away transfer credit course. Study Abroad and Away provides students
the opportunity to study abroad on long term programs (Exchange Programs, CSU International
Programs, and International Student Exchange Programs) and short-term programs (Faculty-Led
Programs and Summer School Abroad Programs) for academic credit, offering Alternative
Break Programs for cultural immersion, and designing other globally focused opportunities.
This course is designated as a placeholder course for Study Abroad and Away programs.
BUS3 150 - Fundamentals of Human Resource Management
Theories, concepts and processes of human resource management; specific topics include
EEO, employee motivation, job analysis and work design, strategic human resource planning,
recruitment and selection, talent assessment and development, performance management,
compensation and benefits, OSH, and employee rights and discipline.
BUS3 151 - Labor Relations
Private sector union-management relations; labor history, basic labor economics. Legislative,
judicial, administrative issues in collective bargaining; contract negotiations, grievance
procedures, dispute resolution. Overview of public sector collective bargaining and
comparative labor relations. Current trends, including labor-management cooperation.
BUS3 152 - Human Resources and Analytics
Examines how Human Resource (HR) professionals can use data analytics to inform HR
decisions. Includes descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics. Concepts
are applied using software tools such as Qualtrics, SPSS, Excel, and Tableau.
BUS3 153 - Management of Diversity
Cross-cultural differences in effective HR management; organizational culture, cross-cultural
communication, opportunity structures, organizational change; legal compliance and
planning models such as Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action; conflict
resolution strategies; dealing with internal and external compliance agencies.
BUS 154 - Workforce Planning, Staffing, and Training
Examines basic concepts, strategies and current issues in recruitment, talent acquisition,
selection and training. Involves use of computer tools to analyze impacts of legal
compliance, diversity, technology, outsourcing, restructuring and downsizing on effective
management of human resources.
BUS3 155 - Performance Management and Development
Assessment and performance management of individuals, groups and organizations in
a rapidly changing environment. Explores need for change management skills such as
organizational development, career development and coaching to assess and improve
the talent base of organizations. Project required.
BUS3 157 - Legal Issues in Human Resource Management
Legal aspects of the employment relationship, including employment at will; contract,
privacy, public policy, and whistleblower exceptions; EEO and affirmative action;
prohibitions against discrimination and harassment; arbitration, trade secrets and
non-competition agreements; occupational safety/health; compensation, benefit and
family leave laws. Project required.
BUS3 158 - Compensation and Reward Systems
Theories and practices of compensation and benefits; strategies to establish and administer
equitable pay structures; job analysis, and evaluation, salary surveys, pay and motivation,
skill-based pay systems, long-term and short-term performance plans, merit increase,
bonus, stock options, profit-sharing, executive compensation and computer tools in
compensation.
BUS3 159 - Senior Seminar in Human Resource Management
Extension and integration of student knowledge, skills and abilities in strategic
HRM; critical analysis of current HRM issues; exploration of HR career options; analysis
of existing organizations to develop methods of improving HRM decision-making in a
real-world setting.
BUS3 160 - Fundamentals of Management and Organizational Behavior
Provides a foundation for major topics in management and organizational behavior by
surveying theories and practices relating to managerial roles, organizational cultures,
fundamental strategic issues, planning, team building, communication, motivation,
leadership, decision-making, control, structure and change. Recognize perceptual
biases and understand how they affect decision-making and interpersonal processes
through assigned readings and in-class activities.
BUS3 161A - Applied Organizational Behavior
Focuses on high-level application, analysis, synthesis and evaluation of group dynamics,
interpersonal communication, motivation, leadership, perception and attitudes, individual
power and politics, conflict and stress management. In-depth emphasis on key theories
plus interpersonal managerial skills.
BUS3 161B - Organization Theory
Managing organization-wide structural and cultural changes leading to designs that
enhance organizational effectiveness. Change issues of managing growth, resistance,
intervention phases, crisis management, intergroup conflict/power are combined with
design issues of balancing innovation and predictability, decentralization and centralization.
BUS5 162 - International and Comparative Management
Management functions and practices in an international context; comparison of management
and business practices from various political and cultural perspectives; emphasis
on what managers need to be aware of in order to perform in the international environment.
BUS5 162A - International Business Strategy
Course focuses on the strategic challenges and the strategic management of firms that
operate and compete in a global environment. Course provides an overarching experience
in international business by integrating knowledge and previous international business
learning.
BUS5 163 - Management Issues in High Technology Companies
Provides an overview of a wide variety of key managerial concerns, industry knowledge
and management techniques that are especially relevant in high technology companies.
Such organizations compete within an environment characterized by rapid technological
change and a high degree of uncertainty.
BUS5 163A - Negotiating Globally
Introduces a theoretical framework and skill-building exercises for negotiating agreements,
resolving disputes, and making decisions across cultures. Builds awareness of the
global negotiating environment including cultural and institutional factors. Applicable
to commercial transactions, employee relations, contract disputes, and international
diplomacy.
BUS5 163B - Business and Innovation in Emerging Economies
Management functions and practices in an international context; comparison of management
and business practices from various political and cultural perspectives; emphasis
on what managers need to be aware of in order to perform in the international environment.
BUS5 164 - Doing Business Globally
Comprehensive study of the business and management practices of a featured country
or region. Includes historical, institutional, sociopolitical and cultural context.
May be offered as a faculty-led program abroad or include a virtual study or internship
component.
BUS5 164A - Doing Business in Japan
Comprehensive study of the management and business practices in Japan. Includes the
historical, institutional, sociopolitical, and cultural contexts that are relevant
to conducting business in Japan and working effectively with Japanese business partners.
BUS5 164B - Doing Business in India
Comprehensive study of the business and management practices in India. Includes historical,
institutional, sociopolitical, industrial and cultural context, along with economic
and industrial organizational dynamics.
BUS5 164C - Doing Business in China
Comprehensive study of the business and management practices in China. Includes historical,
institutional, sociopolitical, industrial and cultural context, along with economic
and industrial organizational dynamics.
BUS3 - 165 Analysis and Design of Teams
Team formation, team structures, team communication, team dynamics, team performance,
and team management challenges prevalent in organizations. Study of team types from
a broad selection of business functions and industry contexts.
BUS5 165A - Global Leadership
This course introduces students to global leadership and its development and is designed
for students who want to work effectively with people in diverse settings. Taught
experientially, the course involves simulations, innovation projects, and extensive
individual feedback.
BUS5 165B - Leadership & Innovation Practicum
This is a project-based practicum course for students interested in global leadership
and innovation. Course topics include project management of multicultural teams, innovation,
and change management. Students apply theory and skills gained in previous courses
as they implement personal leadership projects.
BUS3 - 166 Business, Government, and Society
Analysis of the American business system in terms of socio-economic and political
constraints imposed upon business organizations by external, physical, legal, political,
social and economic environments. Special reference to ethical issues in business,
corporate social responsibility, profit maximization and countervailing powers in
a pluralistic society.
BUS5 167 - Managing Environmental Issues
The management of environmental issues, including the relationship of business to
the natural environment; the public policy context of management decision-making;
and the greening of the corporation and implications for strategic management, operations,
human resources, marketing and accounting.
BUS3 - 169 Honors Seminar
This course will introduce some of the seminal theories in management and related
fields. The seminar will provide a variety of views on organizations, organizational
life and the way organizations function. The course will be cross-disciplinary, drawing
on readings about organizations from a variety of sources and disciplines. Students
will be required to apply theoretical concepts to their own work, field study, or
internship experiences.
BUS3 - 169B Honors Practicum
Second semester of a two-semester honors program sequence. Student teams collaborate
on a project sponsored by a company or other organization, under the supervision of
the sponsor and the instructor. Teams present their final report to the sponsor.
BUS3 - 180D Business Strategy Case Competition
The course uses simulation to help build awareness of the relationship between operational
decisions and market outcomes, and build strategic thinking skills. The course involves
participation in the International Collegiate Business Strategy Competition. Students
work in teams making resource allocation decisions for a virtual firm over 20 quarters.
They will compete with team mates from other universities in the US and abroad. Admission
GPA requirement and pre-course competition results.
BUS5 181 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship
Insight into the characteristics of entrepreneurs, the approaches they use to create,
identify and evaluate opportunities for new ventures and the skills that are needed
to start and manage new ventures and develop a preliminary business plan.
BUS5 182 - Business Plans for New Ventures
An integrative course involving teamwork to prepare complete plans for starting a
new business. This will require analyzing the industry and potential market, the competitive
advantage of the business proposition, human and financial resource requirements and
the founders’ skills.
BUS5 182A - Startup Founders & Funders
Exploration of the early decisions that have important long-term consequences for
founders and funders. Examines the motivations, mechanics and resources available
for those interested in investing in early stage ventures as an angel investor or
venture capitalist.
BUS5 183 - Global Entrepreneurship
Will explore the opportunities that entrepreneurs create, encounter and change in
the global and cross-cultural arena. It will examine how entrepreneurs adapt to and
succeed in a global economy and how institutional networks facilitate global and immigrant
entrepreneurship.
BUS5 184A - Management of Innovation
Discusses types of innovation and their impact. Analyzes industry practices in management
of innovation for corporate growth and renewal through new products, processes, organization,
and business models. Examines strategic and tactical aspects of the innovation process
and alignment of innovation efforts with strategy.
BUS5 185 - Family Business Dynamics
This course explores and analyzes the unique issues and challenges of family businesses
in terms of the dynamic relationship between the family and business and its impact
on decision-making and performance of the business.
BUS3 - 186 Professional and Business Ethics
Extension and integration of student knowledge, skills and abilities in strategic
HRM; critical analysis of current HRM issues; exploration of HR career options; analysis
of existing organizations to develop methods of improving HRM decision-making in a
real-world setting.
BUS5 186H - Entrepreneurship Laboratory
Explores all facets of growing an entrepreneurial organization, including building
the team, sales, marketing, operations, and finance. Opportunity to learn with practical
internship and roundtables with entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and others in the
new venture ecosystem.
BUS5 186S - Current Issues in Entrepreneurship
A presentation of topics of current interest to entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs. Focuses
on one or more special topics of concern to current practice, such as green entrepreneurship,
social entrepreneurship, or managing high-growth ventures.
BUS5 186V - Venture Lab
VLAB is an experiential course in which students work on the process of developing
and testing the idea(s) for a new venture. The course combines theory with hands-on
entrepreneurship. Students will test each aspect of the business model outside the
class, and share the insights with their peers in class. By the end of the course,
they will have completed a prototype and be able to demonstrate the business opportunity.
BUS5 187 - Global Dimensions of Business
An integrative interdisciplinary course that provides an overview of economic, social,
cultural, political and legal factors and institutional forces influencing cross-border
business; introduces the global dimensions of business functions; develops the ability
to identify and manage the unique opportunities and challenges presented in global
business.
BUS3 - 189 Strategic Management
Integrative capstone seminar analyzing interrelationships of managerial decisions/actions
within and between the firm and its environment. Applies multi-disciplinary techniques
to diagnose and recommend actions appropriate to specific company situations, using
case methods.
BUS5 192 - International Program Studies
Study Abroad and Away transfer credit course. Study Abroad and Away provides students
the opportunity to study abroad on long term programs (Exchange Programs, CSU International
Programs, and International Student Exchange Programs) and short-term programs (Faculty-Led
Programs and Summer School Abroad Programs) for academic credit, offering Alternative
Break Programs for cultural immersion, and designing other globally focused opportunities.
This course is designated as a placeholder course for Study Abroad and Away programs.
BUS5 194 - Business Organization and Management of Technology Enterprise
This course provides a “top down” overview of how commercial business works, including
the business components: Corporate Environments, Human Resources, Legal, Marketing,
Customer Insights, Management/Leadership. Communication and business soft skills will
be covered providing a foundation for a solid business acumen. All class sessions
focus on local and global perspectives.
BUS5 196E - Startup Founders and Funders
Covers the early decisions that have important long-term consequences for founders
and funders. It also examines the motivations, mechanics and resources available for
those interested in investing in early stage ventures as an angel investor or venture
capitalist.
BUS5 196F - Critical Thinking in Business
Development of critical thinking skills in business through analyis of current news
stories, business case studies, and videos to assess credibility of sources, biases,
assumptions, and inferences, and generate alternative hypotheses based on logic and
facts. Analysis of a current social issue including its sources, associated biases,
related assumptions, current attempts at the solving the issue, and generatation of
solutions based on logic and facts.
BUS5 197 - Special Topics in International Business
This course features special topics in International Business. The course can be taken
for credit on campus or in a study abroad or short-term faculty-led program. It may
be repeated for credit in the case of different special topics.
Graduate Courses
BUS - 202 Managing in the Global Economy
This course investigates the world economy, including how markets, institutions and
organizations vary from country to country, and how global competition, climate change,
digital and emerging economics, and shifting from manufacturing to a service economy
affect management practice.
BUS - 210 Developing and Managing People
Based on the philosophy that increased self-awareness and effective self-management
leads to more effective management of others, uses experientially focused, integrating
models, principles, and activities
BUS - 250 Law and Ethics
Course focuses on both law and ethics in the business environment, how individuals
and organizations approach law and ethics, as well as the ethical, legal and social
consequences of disregarding law and ethics in favor of other objectives.
BUS - 252 Managing Organizational Change
The focus will be upon applied organizational change by covering organizational behavior
from a normative, policy-oriented perspective. The perspective will be one of viewing
the person (student) as an actual or potential change agent; a consultant (internal
or external), innovative personnel specialist, or middle or top level manager.
BUS - 253 Negotiation and Conflict Management
Introduces a theoretical framework and skill-building exercises/simulations for negotiating
agreements in adversarial or competitive relationships. Explores conflict resolution
methods applicable to commercial transactions, employee relations, union management
negotiation and contract disputes, as well as international diplomacy.
BUS - 255 Diversity in the Workplace
Analysis of communication, leadership, motivation, group dynamics, decision-making,
problem solving, training, change, conflict resolution and other behavioral concerns
as they apply to the management of the multicultural workforce.
BUS - 262A Global Leadership and Innovation
A focused approach to how global leadership fosters innovation and global change.
The course integrates business, industry, and ecosystem perspectives on leading innovation
and change. Uses a variety of learning tools including analysis of case studies and
the development of actionable consultative reports. Participants learn how to foster
innovation at all levels of the organization, in themselves, and in those they lead
in global industries.
BUS - 262B Global Leadership Development
Development of leadership skills for personal self-awareness and organizational growth
outcomes required in innovative global environments. The course explores classic
and contemporary models of leadership in a multi-domain context using evidence-based
management approaches. Emphasizes the experiential nature of applying these skills
in organizations to address the challenges in the innovative global workplace. Open
to all students with graduate standing. Counts towards Advanced Global Leadership
Certificate.
BUS - 265 Silicon Valley Experience
This course is designed to develop the “whole student” for success in the business
world, including professionalism, ethics, case competitions, communications, networking,
career success, and work/life balance. It includes lectures, speakers, panels, competitions,
and other events providing students with an in-depth exposure to Silicon Valley.
BUS - 268 Managing Across Cultures
A comprehensive foundation for understanding, managing, and successfully interacting
in the multi-faceted, culturally-embedded contexts of multinational firms. Understanding
major issues facing multinational corporations in the management of international
operations including what fosters innovative environments; insights into cultural,
historical and institutional factors; managing innovation across cultures; skills
for working effectively in international multicultural teams. Open to all students
with graduate standing. Counts towards Advanced Global Leadership Certificate.
BUS - 282A - Management and Organizational Behavior (MBT Program)
Familiarizes students with the challenges that arise for managers in organizational
settings; surveys theories and practices relating to managerial roles, organizational
cultures, strategy, planning, team building, communication, motivation, leadership,
decision-making, control, structure, and change.
BUS - 290 Strategic Thinking
Integrative focus on managing the total enterprise, including corporate and business-level
strategy formation. Applies market and industry analysis, using qualitative and quantitative
techniques, to position companies in their competitive environment. Students create
a strategic plan for on-going or new organizations.
BUS - 297D Teams that Work
Organizations intensively use teams, both co-localized and geographically distributed
(or virtual), to carry on knowledge intensive work that is critical to their success.
However, teams often fail to live up to their full potential due to managerial and
organizational issues. This course aims to provide a framework to analyze and interpret
the variables and processes that affect team effectiveness. Students will understand
the challenges faced by teams in traditional and new work scenarios and will learn
how to design and manage ‘teams that work’.
BUS - 297D Management of Human Assets
Knowledge based workers expect more autonomy, flexibility, new learning, and information.
Managing these intellectual assets is challenging and requires a new way of approaching
their expectations. This course focuses on strategies to manage the most valuable
of assets that knowledge based organizations possess: the humans. You will learn about
their importance, and how to attract, retain, compensate and manage their performance
and development. The course also includes a component on international HRM.
BUS - 297D Non-profit/Social Enterprise Design and Management
This course covers the full spectrum of requirements for designing, strategizing and
managing nonprofit and social enterprises. These topics include identifying opportunities,
generating revenue, managing volunteer and non-volunteer human resources, and obtaining
nonprofit designation and additional certifications. We cover motivations for creating
a nonprofit/social enterprise, benefits certification, and the unique challenges they
present.
BUS - 297D Human Resource Analytics
People analytics is a critical function within HR that highly values data-driven skillsets,
as they are needed to help answer business decisions regarding growth, performance,
learning and development, workforce planning, and more. The course objective is to
provide hands-on experience in synthesizing, analyzing, and describing people data
to inform crucial HR/People decisions. The course will be project-focused and will
include topics like engaging with stakeholders, obtaining business requirements, analyzing
data, and more. Tools used include Excel and Python for data manipulation. The course
will also introduce Tableau for data visualization of outputs to “tell a story with
data”. No prior knowledge of these software and tools are required, though it is recommended
you have taken an introductory programming or coding course.