Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mgmt/programs/honorsprogram.php
Title: Honors Program
Type: HTML

Honors Program
The School of Management (SoM) offers an honors curriculum comprising two courses. Together they provide students with an integrated, balanced and demanding learning experience.
The SoM Honors curriculum presents a unique learning opportunity combining rigor with practical experience. You will have the chance to learn in small classes that enable faculty to provide a more personalized learning environment.
Over the course of two semesters, you will work with a team of highly motivated, high achieving students on a “challenge” proposed by a nonprofit organization. The challenge will be an organizational/managerial problem faced by the nonprofit organization. Why nonprofit organizations?
- Nonprofit organizations are complex organizational environments where two sets of objectives (economic and social) coexist;
- Nonprofit organizations can have an immediate benefit from improved managerial and organizational processes;
- Nonprofit organizations are important for our community in San Jose and beyond: contributing to their success is meaningful to all of us!
In the Fall each team analyzes the organizational context and comes up with initial ideas on how to address the identified issues; during the Spring each student team refines and implements the solution (or a prototype of it) in the nonprofit organization.
The Business Honors Program will help you grow into more flexible and rigorous thinkers, and provide valuable experience dealing with real business problems. Completing the program will certainly set you apart from other students in the job market. But we hope that it will do more than just get you a good job; we hope that the experience will be of value to you in your professional lives for many years to come.
Find out more...
An open house for prospective students from all concentrations is normally held 2-3 weeks prior to the application deadline; see the Business Honors Program home page for specific dates.