Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mktba/hospitality-summit.php
Title: Hospitality Summit
Type: HTML

Hospitality Summit
2025 SJSU Hospitality Summit
Have you ever wondered what it takes to launch a career at a world-class luxury hotel, coordinate large events, or manage/own food and beverage outlets? The 2025 Hospitality Summit took place on Friday, October 3 and brought together leading industry professionals who candidly shared their unique paths into their profession, offered their collective wisdom on a variety of progressive topics, and fielded thought-provoking questions from students.
About the Summit
The SJSU Hospitality Summit is a premier event designed to connect students with leading industry professionals, innovators, and aspiring entrepreneurs. Hosted by the SJSU Lucas College of Business, Career Center, and the MKTBA Department, this summit is a signature cornerstone event dedicated to exploring dynamic trends and future directions within the hospitality sector.
Our Goal
Our goal is to foster collaboration and share cutting-edge knowledge, reflecting SJSU MKTBA's commitment to excellence in education and industry leadership. The summit is free for all students and employers and provides an excellent opportunity to engage with thought-provoking presentations, network with peers, and gain valuable perspectives on the evolving landscape of hospitality.
Co-Hosts
This event is made possible with our co-hosts: MPINCC, Meeting Professionals International Northern California Chapter, SJSU Silicon Valley Center for Entrepreneurship and Cal Poly Pomona Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
Sponsorships and Donations
Support the Summit
Although this event is free for all students and employers, sponsorship and donations are welcome and greatly appreciated.
Sponsorship
Elevate your presence! Breakfast and lunch sponsorship opportunities are available for the SJSU Hospitality Summit. For more information, please contact Dr. Michael Merz at michael.merz@sjsu.edu.
Donations
Help us build a successful summit! Your generous donations, no matter the size, are invaluable and directly support our initiatives. Please consider contributing to the SJSU Tower Foundation Hospitality Management Fund via the link below.
Participating Companies
Find us on Instagram!