Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mktba/about-us/success_stories.php
Title: Our Accomplishments
Type: HTML

Our Accomplishments
Jump to:
Faculty Success Stories
Student Sucess Stories
- Deep Dive in Five with Spartan and Former NFL Star Jeff Garcia
- Bridging Classroom and Industry: HFTP Students at ALIS 2026
Faculty Success Stories
SJSU Assistant Professor Awarded Paul R. Lawrence Fellowship with a Touching LCoB Connection
Mithila Guha, a second-year assistant professor of marketing at San José State University’s Lucas College of Business, was selected as the first SJSU recipient of the Paul R. Lawrence Fellowship, a program that trains early-career academics in case research, writing and teaching. Inspired to strengthen her use of case studies in the classroom, Guha participated in specialized sessions and mentorship at the 2024 fellowship and NACRA conference, where she was mentored by Anne Lawrence, professor emerita and daughter of the fellowship’s namesake, Harvard Business School professor Paul R. Lawrence. Established in 2015 through the Case Research Foundation to honor her father’s legacy, the fellowship has supported 92 scholars and uniquely combines mentorship with practical training in the case method. Guha described the experience as enriching and impactful, enhancing both her teaching and research, while Lawrence praised Guha’s enthusiasm and talent, calling the mentorship a delight. Read full story.
Student Sucess Stories
Deep Dive in Five with Spartan and Former NFL Star Jeff Garcia
Jeff Garcia, ’97 Marketing, is a four-time Canadian Football League All-Star and four-time NFL Pro Bowl selection. During his NFL career, Garcia, a Gilroy native, played for the San Francisco 49ers, Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Philadelphia Eagles, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Oakland Raiders and Houston Texans. Prior to his professional career, Garcia was the starting quarterback at San José State University and was named a UPI All-American his junior season in 1992.
We spoke with Jeff about his time at SJSU, how it prepared him for his professional career and what it means to have the Super Bowl in the Bay Area. Read full story.
Bridging Classroom and Industry: HFTP Students at ALIS 2026
Four HFTP student members recently served as official Student Ambassadors at the Americas Lodging Investment Summit (ALIS), held January 25–28, 2026, at the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton Los Angeles L.A. LIVE.
As the world’s leading and most influential hotel investment conference, the ALIS Student Ambassador Program brings approximately 100 hospitality students from over 25 universities to the summit each year. For students, it is an elite experiential learning opportunity that bridges the gap between the classroom and the high-stakes world of hotel investment. Through this program, our students gained firsthand insights into the financial and technological forces shaping the future of hospitality.
"Talking to professionals provided real-life insight into how this industry works
and affects our lives. I also gained a deeper understanding of how technology is being
applied in hospitality. The best part was how supportive the host crew was; they were
generous enough to connect with us, share their thoughts, and give valuable suggestions
for our career plans. We also connected with students from across the country and
heard their interesting stories and backgrounds. This trip not only bridged the gap
between academics and the workplace but also introduced us to a community that brings
us one step closer to our goals."