Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mktba/about-us/index.php
Title: About Us
Type: HTML

About Us
Welcome to the Marketing and Business Analytics Department! Students pursuing a degree in the Department of Marketing and Business Analytics may choose from three primary concentrations: Marketing, Business Analytics, and Hospitality, Tourism, and Event Management. The Department of Marketing and Business Analytics is also overseeing the General Business concentration in both the regular and special session programs (e.g., SJSUOnline). The Marketing concentration prepares students for careers in areas such as sales and promotion, marketing management, brand strategy, and social media marketing across a wide range of industries. Students develop skills in consumer behavior, market research, and strategic marketing planning to effectively position products and services in competitive markets. The Business Analytics concentration is designed for students interested in quantitative and data-driven approaches to business decision-making. This concentration emphasizes analytical tools, data visualization, predictive modeling, and the interpretation of data to generate strategic business insights. The Hospitality, Tourism, and Event Management (HTEM) concentration equips students with the knowledge and skills needed to manage customer-focused experiences in hospitality, tourism, and event-based organizations. Students gain expertise in service management, event planning, operations, and experiential marketing within a dynamic and global industry. The General Business concentration provides students with a broad foundation in core business disciplines, offering flexibility and a comprehensive understanding of business operations. While this concentration is ideal for students seeking a well-rounded business education that supports diverse career pathways across industries, we encourage students in the regular session programs to gain more specialized knowledge in one of our core business disciplines. The Department of Marketing and Business Analytics is the home of two signature experiential learning opportunities for our students – the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-AM Golf Tournament Special Event Management Program and the Hospitality Summit. The department has also embedded the Career Launch Initiative into our introductory marketing classes to ensure that all business students are well-equipped for the job market upon graduation.
Read our welcome message and learn more about all of the incredible opportunities the Department of Marketing and Business Analytics has to offer.
Not sure how to find our department? Take a look at our campus map and get easy-to-follow directions.
If you have a question or need assistance with your coursework, you can contact your instructors.