Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/mktba/about-us/faculty-staff-contact.php
Title: Faculty and Staff Contacts
Type: HTML

Faculty and Staff Contacts
Department of Marketing and Business Analytics
Business Tower 750
Phone: 408-924-3506
Zip: 95192-0069
Office Hours:
Monday - Friday: 8:00am - 5:00pm
(Closed between 12:00pm - 1:00pm)
Department Chair
Dr. Michael Merz
Department Chair and Professor of Marketing
408-924-3536
michael.merz@sjsu.edu
Dr. Michael A. Merz is a Professor of Marketing and the Chair of the Marketing and
Business Analytics Department at San Jose State University. He completed his Ph.D.
at the University of Hawai`i at Mānoa, MBA. at the Ludwig-Maximilians-University of
Munich, and his B.S. at the University of Bayreuth. Michael is an expert in the areas
of international marketing, branding, artificial intelligence, entrepreneurial marketing,
and sustainability marketing. He has published his work in journals such as the Journal
of the Academy of Marketing Science, Industrial Marketing Management, Journal of Business
Research, Journal of International Marketing, and Journal of Product and Brand Management.
He is also a co-author of the acclaimed International Marketing – Strategy and Theory
textbook, now in its 6th edition with Routledge/ Taylor & Francis.
Staff Contacts
Quyen Luu
Department Analyst
408-924-3503
quyen.luu@sjsu.edu
Fidelio Adriano
Administrative Support Coordinator
408-924-3516
fidelio.adriano@sjsu.edu
Emily Yu
Administrative Support
emily.k.yu@sjsu.edu
Faculty Contacts & Short Biographies
Jump to:
Ravi Agarwal - Assistant Professor
Vivek Agarwal - Lecturer
Thunyarat Amornpetchkul
Jennifer Bechkoff
Stephen Cash
Gary Castro
David Czerwinski
Joseph Dworak
Marilyn Easter
Walter Easter
Egbe-Etu Etu
Jeffrey Fadiman
Jie Gao
Ken Gehrt
Mithila Guha
Jooyeon Ha
Yinghua "Michelle" Huang
Jennifer Johnson
Michael Klein
Hyojin Lee
Ruichun Liu
Therese Louie
Mahboudeh Madadi
David McFeely
James R McMillin
Miwa Merz
Mohammadsadegh Mobin
Alexa Pagonas
Deborah Parker Wong
Mahesh Rajan
Serkan Saka
Reshma Shah
Robert Sibley
Steven Silver
Marko Spremo
Sumeet Syal
Terry Thompson
Shaonan Tian
Gema Vinuales
Deborah Parker Wong
Kezban Yagci Sokat
Tsu-Hong Yen
Jing Zhang
Agarwal, Ravi
Assistant Professor of Marketing
BT 753
ravi.agarwal@sjsu.edu
Dr. Ravi Agarwal is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Marketing & Business
Analytics at San José State University. He earned his Ph.D. in Marketing from the
University of Nebraska–Lincoln, where his dissertation, Regulatory Focus in Key Account
Management Teams, Governance Mechanisms, and Solution Outcomes, won the prestigious
ISBM Doctoral Dissertation Award. His research interests span marketing strategy, interfirm relationships, key account
management, and strategic alliances, with a methodological focus on econometrics,
text analytics, and machine learning. His work has been published in leading journals,
such as the Journal of Personal Selling and Sales Management and the International
Journal of Research in Marketing. Ravi has presented his research at renowned conferences,
including the AMA Academic Conference, Haring Symposium, ISBM Academic Conference,
and Mittelstaedt & Gentry Doctoral Symposium.
His teaching portfolio includes courses such as Marketing Analytics, International Marketing, Principles of Marketing, and Business-to-Business Marketing. In less than 3 years of his career at SJSU, he has been honored twice with the Lucas College of Business Master Teaching Award in recognition of his excellence in teaching.
Agarwal, Vivek
Lecturer
BT 760
(408) 476-7626
vivek.agarwal01@sjsu.edu
Vivek Agarwal is a part time marketing and graduate program instructor. He has a strong
passion to help striving students, professionals and executives achieve their full
potential. Throughout his 27+ years in the high-tech industry, he has a proven track
record in the areas of marketing, business management and general management. He has
an MBA from SJSU and Master’s in Computer Engineering from USC. Vivek has delivered
enlightening lectures and seminars to motivate, inspire and train aspiring individuals
enhancing their management skills and make informed career choices. He has shared
his personal insights to provide guidance on career management and leadership development.
He is also an Adjunct Professor at the School of Business & Management at SJSU since
Spring of 2017.
Vivek teaches courses such as Product Management and Marketing Management. He also
is the undergraduate instructor for the Honors Program and graduate instructor for
the Silicon Valley Experience program. He has been honored with the Lucas College
of Business Distinguished Lecturer Award and several Master Teacher Awards in recognition
of his consistent excellence in student instruction and development.
Amornpetchkul, Thunyarat
Lecturer
thunyarat.amornpetchkul@sjsu.edu
Bechkoff, Jennifer
Professor
BT 764
(408) 924-3693
Online & by appointment
jennifer.bechkoff@sjsu.edu
Cash, Stephen
Lecturer
Email: stephen.cash@sjsu.edu
Stephen Cash is a part time marketing lecturer. Stephen has over 15 years of Tech
industry experience including AI datacenter network infrastructure, Telecom/Datacom
optics, Semiconductors, and Biotechnology. He is currently Senior Director at Accelink
Technologies. His prior experience includes Ciena, Edgecore Networks, Coherent, Itochu
international trading, and Hitachi for semiconductor and network solutions. Stephen
has a strong passion to help students bridge the gap from university studies to careers
in industry. He completed his MBA at SJSU, BS in Microbiology at UC Santa Barbara,
and AS in Computer Network Technology at Mission College. Stephen has been teaching
undergraduate and graduate courses at SJSU since Fall 2020.
Castro, Gary
Lecturer
BT 752
(408) 924-4561
gary.castro@sjsu.edu
Gary Castro is a lecturer in the Department of Marketing and Business Analytics. He
did is BS in Management from SJSU and an MA in Organizational Leadership from Gonzaga
University.
Czerwinski, David
Interim Director, School of Information Systems and Technology, and Professor
BT 250
(408) 924-3528
david.czerwinski@sjsu.edu
Dr. David Czerwinski is Professor of Business Analytics and Interim Director of the
School of Information Systems and Technology. His research involves the application
of techniques from operations research and statistics to healthcare and transportation.
David holds a PhD in Operations Research from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
and a BS with distinction in Mathematical and Computational Science from Stanford
University.
Dworak, Joseph
Lecturer
408-286-5800
Joseph.Dworak@berliner.com
Easter, Marilyn
Professor
BT 764
(408) 924-3520
marilyn.easter@sjsu.edu
Easter, Walter
Lecturer
BT 660
walter.easter@sjsu.edu
Dr. Walter Easter has successfully owned and operated a small business for 34 years. He co-authored a book “The ABC’s of Marketing a Successful Business.” As Senior Advisor to the G.o.A.L. (Generation of Aspirational Leaders) team, Dr. Easter was instrumental in developing and implementing criteria for measuring student success. He recently presented a research paper "Creating Community for Students' Academic and Career Success" at the American Society of Business and Behavioral Sciences in Las Vegas. Dr. Easter received his DDS in dentistry from the University of California, San Francisco, an MBA from Louisiana State University, Shreveport, and a BS from University of California, Davis. He is a Fellow of the American College of Dentists.
Etu, Egbe-Etu
Assistant Professor
BT 565
(408) 924-3507
egbe-etu.etu@sjsu.edu
Dr. Egbe-Etu Etu is an Assistant Professor of Business Analytics in the Department of Marketing and Business Analytics at San Jose State University (SJSU). Dr. Etu completed his Ph.D. degree at Wayne State University and undergraduate degree at Covenant University, Nigeria. He is a research associate with Mineta Transportation Institute and Henry Ford Health. Dr. Etu is an expert in developing use-inspired machine learning models to solve problems in healthcare, transportation, and manufacturing industries. He has published his work in journals such as IEEE Access, Healthcare, Water Practice & Technology, PLOS One, and Annals of Emergency Medicine.
Fadiman, Jeffrey
Professor
BT 756
(408) 924-3527
jeffrey.fadiman@sjsu.edu
Jeff Fadiman is a Professor of Global Marketing at SJSU. Jeff's Ph.D, in Comparative Tropical History, (Africa/Asia) is from University of Wisconsin. His MA (African Language and Area Studies) is from American University. His BA--which includes two years of study at the Universities of Vienna and Berlin-- is in Journalism, from Stanford University.
Gao, Jie
Associate Professor
408-924-6839
Jie.gao@sjsu.edu
Office: BT 561
Gehrt, Ken
Professor
BT 562
(408) 924-3534
kenneth.gehrt@sjsu.edu
Guha, Mithila
Assistant Professor
mithila.guha@sjsu.edu
Dr. Mithila Guha, an Assistant Professor of Marketing at San Jose State University, specializes in the intersection of Marketing analytics, the transformative role of Marketing in driving positive social changes, Brand activism, and Online strategies. Her expertise is rooted in empirical quantitative marketing research, focusing on brand-consumer interactions across diverse social media and online platforms.
Dr. Guha's research has been published in leading marketing journals include the Journal of Business Research and the Journal of Brand Management. She was recently honored as the first SJSU faculty member to receive the prestigious 2024 Paul R. Lawrence Fellowship, a global recognition awarded to only 10 fellows by the North American Case Research Association (NACRA) and the Case Research Foundation. Her exceptional work was further recognized with the Best In Track Award at the 2022 Summer AMA Conference for her outstanding achievements in the Digital & Social Media Marketing Track. Beyond academia, Dr. Guha's commitment extends to serving as a certified Mental Health First-aider, demonstrating her dedication to making a meaningful impact in the lives of others, both within and beyond the classroom.
Ha, Jooyeon
Professor
408-924-8039
Jooyeon.ha@sjsu.edu
Office: BT 558
Huang, Yinghua "Michelle"
Professor
408-924-3274
Yinghua.huang@sjsu.edu
Office: BT 559
Yinghua Huang is a full professor at the Department of Hospitality, Tourism and Event Management at San José State University. Her research interests include sustainable marketing, consumer pro-environmental behaviors, and big data analytics. Dr. Huang serves as an editoral board member for Journal of Hospitality Marketing and Management (SSCI), International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management (SSCI) and Journal of Quality Assurance in Hospitality & Tourism (ESCI). Her research has been published in leading journals including Tourism Management, Journal of Travel Research, Journal of Sustainable Tourism,International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, and Journal of Hospitality Marketing and Management.
Johnson, Jennifer
Lecturer
BT 752
(408) 924-4561
jennifer.p.johnson@sjsu.edu
Jennifer Johnson is a part-time marketing instructor with over 20 years of experience in digital marketing. She currently serves as a Program Manager for Digital Events at Oracle. Prior to joining Oracle, she was the Director of Global Marketing Programs at Informatica, LLC. Jennifer earned her B.A. in Sociology from UC Santa Cruz and her J.D. from Golden Gate University School of Law. Since Fall 2017, she has been teaching BUS 90 to undergraduate students at San José State University. Jennifer is passionate about helping students connect classroom learning with real-world marketing practices. Jennifer has a passion for “wheels that go fast” after growing up in a garage handing tools to her dad.
Klein, Michael
Associate Professor
BT 755
(408) 924-3520
michael.klein@sjsu.edu
Dr. Michael G. Klein received his Ph.D. in Operations Management from McGill University, his MBA from DePaul University in Chicago and his B.Com in MIS from the University of Ottawa. He enjoys teaching Business Analytics courses in specialized topics such as Simulation Modeling & Analysis and Supply Chain Analytics. His research focuses on the application of operations research for healthcare operations management and humanitarian logistics. He has published research in the European Journal of Operational Research, IISE Transactions, International Journal of Production Economics, Decision Sciences Journal of Innovative Education, Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness, and Simulation in Healthcare.
Lee, Hyojin
Associate Professor
BT 763
(408) 924-8160
hyojin.lee@sjsu.edu
Hyojin Lee is an Associate Professor of Marketing at San Jose State University. She received her PhD in Marketing from The Ohio State University and B.S. and M.S. degrees in Business Administration from Seoul National University. Prior to beginning her graduate studies, she worked as a marketer at Samsung Electronics in South Korea.
Her research investigates the interplay between visual perception and cognition in the domain of consumer behavior. Her works appear in Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing Research, and Psychology & Marketing, and won the 1st prize in the Edward F. Hayes Graduate Research Symposium. She was named an AMA-Sheth Doctoral Consortium Fellow in 2014.
Liu, Ruichun
Assistant Professor
ruichun.liu@sjsu.edu
Dr. Ruichun Liu is an Assistant Professor of Marketing at San Jose State University. He received hir PhD in Marketing from University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. Dr. Ruichun's research has been published in premium marketing journals such as the Journal of Marketing and the Journal of Public Policy and Marketing.
Louie, Therese
Professor
BT 551
(408) 924-3454
therese.louie@sjsu.edu
Therese Louie is a Professor of Marketing in the Department of Marketing and Business Analytics at San Jose State University. She completed her Ph.D. at UCLA, and both a BS and a BA at the University of California, Berkeley. Prior to academia, she worked in the sales department at a network television station. Therese’s research area is "consumer behavior." She has published her studies in journals such as Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Applied Psychology, and Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. She enjoys seeing different parts of the world.
Madadi, Mahboubeh
Associate Professor
BT 757
(408) 924-3513
mahboubeh.madadi@sjsu.edu
Dr. Mahboubeh Madadi is an Assistant Professor of Business Analytics in Lucas College and Graduate School of Business at San Jose State University. She received her PhD in Industrial Engineering from the University of Arkansas. She also holds a Master’s degree in Statistics, a Master’s degree in Industrial Engineering, and a Bachelor’s degree in Applied Mathematics. Dr. Madadi’s expertise is primarily in the areas of stochastic decision modeling, applied probability, and statistical analysis of complex data with application to healthcare operations and maintenance optimization.
McFeely, David
Lecturer
BT 760
(775) 567-4242
david.mcfeely@sjsu.edu
David McFeely is a part time marketing instructor. David has over 30 years of engineering and marketing experience. He is currently working part time at San Jose State teaching a variety of marketing and data analytics classes, most often "Marketing in new Ventures." Prior to that, David co-founded the non-profit Solartech and served as Director of Government Relations. David served several marketing roles at Agilent Technologies and Hewlett-Packard. David also served several engineering roles at IBM, Signetics, Hewlett-Packard and Analogy. David completed his second MS in Transportation Management in the MTI program at SJSU, his first MS in Economics at SJSU, and his BS in Electronic Engineering at the California Polytechnic State University, SLO. David has been teaching at San Jose State University to undergraduate and graduate students since Fall 2016.
McMillin, James R
Lecturer
BT 752
(408) 924-4561
Merz, Miwa
Professor
BT 754
(408) 924-3519
miwa.merz@sjsu.edu
Miwa Y. Merz is a Professor of Marketing in the Department of Marketing & Business Analytics at San José State University. Miwa received her Ph.D. in Healthcare Marketing in the Communication and Information Sciences (CIS) at University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa. Miwa specializes in consumer insights and healthcare marketing, and in developing and implementing creative messages and communication strategies. Miwa was one of the team professors who launched both Introduction to Marketing and Consumer Behavior courses for the Lucas College of Business Online Degree to Completion Program. Outside of her work, she loves swimming, cooking, and hiking, and enjoys spending time with her family.
Mobin, Mohammadsadegh
Lecturer
sadegh.mobin@sjsu.edu
Pagonas, Alexa
Lecturer
BT 364
(408) 924-3510
alexa.pagonas@sjsu.edu
Alexa Pagonas is a part time marketing instructor. She has represented and advised A-list award-winning talent, top filmmakers and corporations for over 25 years. Throughout her extensive career, she has negotiated hundreds of contracts for film and television including well over $100 million dollars of employment contracts, rights, packages, and events, and is well versed in all aspects of studio, network, and independent productions. Alexa Pagonas has a JD from UC Law San Francisco and a BA from Mills College (nee Northeastern) in Political, Legal, and Economic Analysis. Alexa has been teaching at San Jose State University to undergraduate students since Fall 2020.
Rajan, Mahesh
Professor
BT 759
(408) 924-3537
mahesh.rajan@sjsu.edu
Dr. Mahesh Rajan is a Professor in the Lucas College of Business, San José State University and teaches in the areas of Global Enterprise Management and Marketing. Professor Rajan also served as the first MBA Director at the Lucas Graduate School of Business from August 2009 to December 2012. In addition to teaching at San José State University, he has taught at several eminent business schools in the United States, Australia, Japan and Central America including the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, the Australian Graduate School of Management, the University of Western Australia, Nagoya University of Foreign Studies, and INCAE. He has also had considerable work experience in the private sector in India, Japan, and the USA. Professor Rajan’s research interests include comparative economic and management systems, national/corporate competitiveness and strategic advantage, managing structural decline, consumer logistics, and electronic commerce. He has received several research grants and fellowships from The Japan Foundation, Australian Research Council, SJSU Lucas Graduate School of Business Research Fellowship, and California State University Junior Faculty Research Grant and Lottery Grants. His research has been disseminated in prestigious international conferences, and published in leading journals. Professor Rajan actively serves the university community through committee and advisory work; he also provides consulting services for companies and not-for-profit organizations on a regular basis. In addition to serving on the editorial boards of several journals, Professor Rajan is also a member of the Advisory Board of Alliance School of Business, Alliance University, a leading management school and private university in Bangalore, India.
Saka, Serkan
Assistant Professor
serkan.saka@sjsu.edu
Dr. Serkan Saka is an Assistant Professor of Marketing at San José State University. He earned his Ph.D. in Marketing from the University of Illinois Chicago, his M.S. in Marketing from the University of Cincinnati, and his B.S. in Marketing from Penn State University. Dr. Saka’s research focuses on consumer behavior, particularly how marketing impacts consumer well-being, activism, and human interactions with AI. Before entering academia, he worked in pricing, brand management, and sales across a range of industries.
Shah, Reshma
Lecturer
reshma.shah@sjsu.edu
Sibley, Robert
Associate Professor
BT 764
(408) 924-3442
robert.sibley@sjsu.edu
Silver, Steven
Lecturer
BT 756
(408) 924-3525
steven.silver@sjsu.edu
Spremo, Marko
Lecturer
marko.spremo@sjsu.edu
Syal, Sumeet
Lecturer
BT 756
sumeet.syal@sjsu.edu
Terry Thompson
Lecturer
408-924-2615
Terry.thompson@sjsu.edu
Office: BT 553
Tian, Shaonan
Professor
BT 751
(408) 924-7245
shaonan.tian@sjsu.edu
Shaonan Tian is a Professor of Business Analytics at the Lucas College and
Graduate School of Business, San José State University. She earned her Ph.D. in Quantitative
Analysis from University of Cincinnati. She holds an M.S. in Quantitative Analysis
from University of Cincinnati and a B.S. from Zhejiang University, China. Her research
interests are statistical finance (bankruptcy prediction, credit risk management)
and data mining. Her recent publications appear in the premier journals such as the
Journal of the American Statistical Association, European Journal of Operational Research,
Journal of Banking and Finance and Journal of Empirical Finance.
Vinuales, Gema
Associate Professor
BT 757
(408) 924-3559
gema.vinuales@sjsu.ed
Gema Vinuales is an Associate Professor of Marketing in the Department of Marketing
and Business Analytics at San Jose State University. Gema completed her Ph.D. and
MBA at the University of Rhode Island, and MS. and BS. in Electrical Engineering at
the University of Zaragoza. Gema is an expert in the areas of AI, social media and
brand management. She has published her work in journals such as Psychology & Marketing,
Journal of Marketing Theory & Practice, and Marketing Education Review. Gema enjoys
traveling and spending time with her family.
Wong, Deborah Parker
Lecturer, Wine Studies
Hospital, Tourism, & Event Management
deborah.parkerwong@sjsu.edu
Office: BT 557
Recognized by Wine Business Monthly as a 2023 Wine Industry Leader, Deborah Parker
Wong, MSc, DipWSET is global wine editor for the SOMM Journal and contributor to sister
publication The Tasting Panel magazine. She has been writing about the beverage alcohol
industry for these and other outlets since 2004. In 2020 she was appointed National
Editor, USA for the Slow Wine Guide which is now in its ninth edition. Deborah lectures
at San Jose State University, Santa Rosa Junior College and Cabrillo College, and
owns a Wine & Spirit Education Trust school
offering Level 2 and Level 3 certifications. In addition to writing and speaking about
wine, in May 2025 she received a Master of Science degree in Viticulture and Enology
from California State University, Fresno with an emphasis in sensory science.
Her motto is: To learn, read. To know, write. To master, teach. A partial archive of her published work can be found at - www.deborahparkerwong.com.
Social media contacts:
Instagram - @deborahparkerwong
Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/deborahparkerwongdwset
www.facebook.com/deborah.parker.wong
Linkedin - https://www.linkedin.com/in/deborahparkerwong/
Yagci Sokat, Kezban
Assistant Professor
BT 761
(408) 924-8038
kezban.yagcisokat@sjsu.edu
Kezban Yagci Sokat is an Associate Professor of Business Analytics in the Department
of Marketing and Business Analytics at San Jose State University. Kezban completed
her Ph.D. at Northwestern University, M.S. at Georgia Institute of Technology with
a Fulbright scholarship, and undergraduate degrees at Istanbul Technical University.
Kezban is an expert in the areas of human trafficking, humanitarian operations, and
public health. Her work has been supported and recognized by many organizations such
as United States Department of Transportation, IBM and San Jose State University.
Kezban has published her work in journals such as Supply Chain Management, European
Journal of Operational Research, Transportation Research Interdisciplinary Perspectives,
Journal of Humanitarian Logistics and Supply Chain Management, and PLoS One. She has
served as DEI Ambassador for Institute for Operations Research and Management Science
(INFORMS), secretary at Production and Operations Management Society (POMS) College
of Humanitarian Operations and Crisis Management (HOCM) Board, member at Transportation
Research Board Standing Committee on Women and Gender in Transportation, and Disability
Advocate for Campus Committee on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at SJSU. Kezban enjoys
playing and watching sports, especially volleyball, cooking, traveling and learning
from new cultures.
Yen, Tsu-Hong
408-924-3292
Tsu-Hong.Yen@sjsu.edu
Office: BT 550H
Request appointment by email.
Zhang, Jing
Professor
BT 765
(408) 924-1346
jing.zhang@sjsu.edu
Jing Zhang is Professor of Marketing in the Department of Marketing and Business Analytics at San Jose State University. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and B.S. from Peking University, China. Prior to academia, Jing worked at J. Walter Thompson as a research assistant and then strategic planner. Jing is an expert in the area of consumer behavior and has published twenty articles in academic journals, including the Journal of Consumer Psychology, Journal of Advertising, and Psychology & Marketing, and International Journal of E-Business Research. Jing enjoys hiking, listening to audio books, and traveling.