Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/research-and-innovation
Title: CSU Releases Findings After Conducting the Largest and Most Comprehensive Survey on Artificial Intelligence in Higher Education
Type: HTML

by SJSU Editor | Apr 1, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
CSU Releases Findings After Conducting the Largest and Most Comprehensive Survey on Artificial Intelligence in Higher Education Responses from more than 94,000 students, faculty and staff reveal higher education’s promising yet complex relationship with AI. Copy and...
by SJSU Editor | Mar 25, 2026 | Research and Innovation, SJ26, Top
San Jose Unveils “100 Sharks – Stitching Districts” to Connect Communities Along New “Sharks Way” By Lou Jimenez, ’23 Art History, Street Life Manager for the San José Downtown Association “100 Sharks – Stitching Districts,”...
by Sam Kamangar | Mar 25, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
Women in AI Panel Brings Civic and Tech Leaders Together at King Library From left: Sheryl Ehrman, Sandy Hirsh Amanda Renteria, President Cynthia Teniente-Matson and Lili Gangas at King Library on March 23. Photo: Robert C. Bain. SAN JOSÉ — On March 23, engineers,...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Mar 12, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
$150K from Google.org Advances Carbon Dioxide Removal Research at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories Small-boat work in progress in Kangerdlugssuaq Sermerssua Fjord, West Greenland. Photo courtesy of Dustin Carroll. Imagine a world where the large-scale removal of...
by SJSU Editor | Mar 4, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured, Research and Innovation
San José State University and Teradyne Partner to Advance Engineering Education and Workforce Readiness Image Courtesy of Teradyne. by Derrick Meyer, Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering San José, Calif. — San José State University (SJSU) is strengthening its...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Jan 27, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
The SJSU Micro Maker Space Project Receives $1 Million in Federal Funding Congressman Sam Liccardo (far right, holding sign) stopped by the future home of the Micro Maker Space at Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering on March 9. Photo: Derrick Meyer. San José...