Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/featured
Title: Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer
Type: HTML

by Julia Halprin Jackson | Apr 15, 2026 | Alumni, Featured, SJ26
Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer Emilio Cortez (left) and SJSU President Cynthia Teniente-Matson stand with Cortez’s painted Lombardi trophy at the Locker Room in downtown San José. Photo: Brian Anderson, ’24 MFA Digital Media Art....
by Tomas Sanchez | Apr 10, 2026 | Adobe@SJSU, Featured
How Adobe is Involved in SJSU Careers At the Elevate Career Hub opening on March 25, 2026. Left to right: Bobbi Makani, Catherine Voss Plaxton, Mari Fuentes-Martin, Cynthia Teniente-Matson, Amy White, and Mo Ramos. Photo by Brian Anderson. The Career Center at San...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Apr 9, 2026 | Featured
SJSU Receives $1.875 Million CSU Grant to Support Asian American and Pacific Islander Students An SJSU delegation attended the California AANHPI Student Achievement Program Summit held at Sacramento State University in February 2026. From left to right: Lilly Pinedo...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Apr 3, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured
“Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week In an effort to build awareness, activism and community-building that amplifies the voices and perspectives of Black mothers and birthing people, the Black Mamas Matter...
by SJSU Editor | Apr 1, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
CSU Releases Findings After Conducting the Largest and Most Comprehensive Survey on Artificial Intelligence in Higher Education Responses from more than 94,000 students, faculty and staff reveal higher education’s promising yet complex relationship with AI. Copy and...
by Sam Kamangar | Mar 25, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
Women in AI Panel Brings Civic and Tech Leaders Together at King Library From left: Sheryl Ehrman, Sandy Hirsh Amanda Renteria, President Cynthia Teniente-Matson and Lili Gangas at King Library on March 23. Photo: Robert C. Bain. SAN JOSÉ — On March 23, engineers,...