Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/2026/maya-anderson-journey
Title: A Spartan Comeback: Maya Anderson’s Journey On and Off the Court
Type: HTML

A Spartan Comeback: Maya Anderson’s Journey On and Off the Court
Maya Anderson elevates for a layup against Nevada during her comeback season at the Provident Credit Union Event Center on January 21, 2026, in San José, California. (Thien-An Truong/San José State Athletics)
This year marks the 100th anniversary of Black History Month. As we celebrate a century of honoring Black achievement and culture, we also recognize the impact Black students, staff and faculty make every day across SJSU’s campus. This series of articles shines a light on their achievements and the ways they help make San José State a more vibrant, welcoming and empowering place to be.
When Maya Anderson, ’27 Business Marketing, joined the San José State Spartan women’s basketball team, she never expected to suffer a devastating injury that would sideline her for an entire season.
But in September 2024, Anderson, who serves as guard on the team, was at basketball practice with the rest of her teammates working on some drills. At one point, she drove to the basket and elevated. When she came back down, she felt something pop in her right leg.
“I wasn’t in extreme pain or anything like that, so I honestly thought I was fine,” says Anderson. “I even asked my assistant coach if we could work out the next day.”
But the next day, after undergoing some tests, she discovered that she had torn her ACL, the anterior cruciate ligament in the middle of the knee. For an athlete, an ACL tear means up to a year of rehabilitation before returning to the sport they love.
“I was honestly heartbroken and really shocked,” says Anderson. “I was really looking forward to that season, so knowing that I would not be able to play a single game was hard for me to wrap my head around at first.”
The two months right after Anderson’s surgery were the hardest. During that time, she was in so much pain that it was difficult for her to stay positive. While navigating her rehabilitation, she also had to continue her work as a student, while being there to cheer on the team.
But Anderson dug deep and pushed through. She knew she had to stay focused on getting healthy.
“Once I came to terms with the fact that what’s done was done, I was just really determined and motivated to get better,” says Anderson.
With that mindset, along with the help of her physical therapist and athletic trainer, Benjamin De La Cruz, Anderson recovered in a little less than a year.
“It was definitely the hardest thing I went through that year, but I can genuinely say that I am a lot better for it because of all that I learned during that process,” says Anderson.
Since fall 2025, Anderson has been out on the court again with her teammates, where she belongs. For the 2025-2026 season, she currently averages 13.1 points and 6.6 rebounds per game.
“I was worried because a lot of people say that after you have an injury like that, you’re never the same. But I feel like it was the opposite,” says Anderson.
Originally from Toronto, Canada, Anderson received many offers from colleges who wanted her to play basketball. Among all of those offers, she decided on SJSU. She felt that its close proximity to Silicon Valley would be beneficial in offering career and networking opportunities. She was also interested in the Beyond Sparta program, which supports student-athletes in preparing for life and careers after college.
“I just felt that SJSU had all these resources for athletes and for students in general to be successful,” says Anderson.
During her first two years of college, Anderson was selected to attend the Black Student Athlete Summit, a conference that brings together Black student athletes and professionals from all over the country.
“It’s a conference that teaches you how to succeed in life after sports, using the tools and skills that we have gained while being black student athletes,” says Anderson.
She feels fortunate to be able to have a career as a student-athlete, and to share the experience with her team and the coaching staff.
“So many people in the administration have been amazing,” said Anderson. “”The administration has selected me to do a lot of cool marketing and speaking opportunities for the team and for the school, so I’m super grateful for that. My coach this year, Jonas Chatterton, has been very instrumental in my personal growth and my growth as a player. And my trainer was huge for my recovery physically and mentally.”
Since Anderson was granted another year of eligibility to play basketball after graduation, she’s hoping to pursue a master’s degree. And after grad school, she wants to go to law school.
“During my time here, I really want to contribute toward people thinking of student-athletes — and Black student-athletes — in a positive way,” says Anderson. “I think people might think that we’re not one of them, but I want to help bridge the gap between the student population and the student-athlete population on campus. I want San José to think of our athletic department and our basketball program in a positive and proud way. Hopefully, I can help move the needle in that direction.
The Black Leadership and Opportunity Center and other campus partners have planned many events for Black History Month focusing on the theme of: A Century of Black History Commemorations. Explore the events.