Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/2026/lucas-college-and-graduate-school-of-business-continues-to-rank-among-californias-best-business-schools-for-undergraduates
Title: Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Continues to Rank Among California’s Best Business Schools for Undergraduates
Type: HTML

Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Continues to Rank Among California’s Best Business Schools for Undergraduates
San José State University’s Lucas College and Graduate School of Business has once again been recognized as a premier business school, maintaining its position as one of the top-ranked public business programs for undergraduate students in California.
In the 2026 Poets&Quants For Undergrads rankings, the college continues its streak of excellence, holding its place among the top undergraduate business programs in the nation, and in the top 3 among public universities in California. It also holds the #1 ranking among public universities in California for several of the alumni survey responses. Alumni rated Lucas as #1 in the quality of teaching business courses, mentorship and alumni connections, opportunities to nurture and improve soft skills, and preparation for the real world.
This ranking result is the latest in a series of major milestones for the college. In December 2025, Poets&Quants ranked SJSU the #1 Online MBA program among California public universities. The MBA program also made a remarkable 16-spot climb in Fortune’s Best MBA Programs of 2026 this past February.
“Our continued recognition among the nation’s top business programs reflects a deep-seated commitment to our students’ success,” says Leslie Albert, interim associate dean for undergraduate and graduate programs at the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business.
Poets&Quants For Undergrads, a leading online publication for undergraduate business education news, annually evaluates and ranks the best undergraduate business programs in the United States. Their methodology considers admissions standards, academic excellence and career outcomes.
Similarly to last year, the college continues to demonstrate its strength in the academic experience category, earning a score of 80.07 out of 100. This metric assesses how effectively a school cultivates student potential – a mission that is personified by students like Sivagami Subramanyan, ’26 Finance, ’27 MS Financial Analytics, who is currently enrolled in the SAGE program, pursuing both her BS and MS.
“As a student, it is both prideful and comforting to be part of a program that is continually recognized for its excellence,” says Subramanyan.
She credits the college’s “ecosystem of opportunities” for pushing her to grow in ways she hadn’t originally imagined. “I have been able to take on leadership roles across multiple student organizations, including founding the Spartan Real Estate Association, serving as president of the Banking and Investment Association, and acting as CEO of a $135K student-managed investment fund,” she says.
Through leadership roles and hands-on experience, Subramanyan has learned to lead teams and make strategic decisions in real-world contexts.
She also notes that the flexibility of the SAGE program has allowed her to accelerate her journey, completing both degrees in just four years while being supported by a dedicated network of faculty and peers.
“Being in an environment like LCoB, where students are constantly challenged, supported and surrounded by high-achieving peers, gives me a strong sense of confidence as I enter the job market,” Subramanyan explains. “It signals to employers that I have been trained in a rigorous, collaborative, and forward-thinking environment, and it reassures me that I am well-prepared to contribute meaningfully from day one.”
She also mentioned that she is grateful to the college’s support system of peers, faculty, staff and deans who empower students through their work. With their guidance, she has learned that leadership is not just about positions, but about responsibility, initiative and the ability to drive meaningful change.
“Beyond the titles and programs, LCoB has empowered me to step into spaces where I can create impact, advocate for others and continuously push my own limits,” says Subramanyan.
Learn more about the Lucas College and Graduate School of Business.