Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/campus-life
Title: Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU
Type: HTML

by Rhoda Shapiro | Mar 23, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured, Leadership
Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU Dean of Students Heather French; © 2026 SJSU, photo by Robert C. Bain, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED In May 2025, Heather French became the first person to step into the role of San José State’s...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 16, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured
Leading the Change: Spartan Women Share Stories of Sustainability in Honor of Women’s History Month This March, SJSU leaders share their visions of sustainable futures in honor of Women’s History Month. Women Shaping a Sustainable Future This March, the...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Feb 26, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured, Leadership
Aliya Swan Helps to Amplify Student Voices Through Leadership and Service Aliya Swan in front of the Associated Students House. Photo courtesy of Aliya Swan. This year marks the 100th anniversary of Black History Month. As we celebrate a century of honoring Black...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Dec 16, 2025 | Campus Life, Featured
2025: Year in Review Caption goes here. With more than 30 examples of experiential learning for undergraduate and graduate students, this new edition of Washington Square: The Magazine highlights the impact hands-on opportunities have in preparing Spartans to succeed...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Dec 8, 2025 | Campus Life, Featured
Deep Dive in Five: The New, Upgraded Sammy App is Here Students participating in Commuter Week Appreciation activities in March 2025. The new and improved Sammy App has just launched at San José State. As a go-to hub for events, community and connection, the app is...
by Michelle Smith McDonald | Dec 2, 2025 | Campus Life, Featured
SJSU Completes Purchase of Spartan Village on the Paseo In fall 2025, the Spartan Village on the Paseo welcomed its second cohort of Spartan residents. Photo by Robert C. Bain. San José State has completed the purchase of the Spartan Village on the Paseo (SVP) student...