Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/stories
Title: Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer
Type: HTML

by Julia Halprin Jackson | Apr 15, 2026 | Alumni, Featured, SJ26
Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer Emilio Cortez (left) and SJSU President Cynthia Teniente-Matson stand with Cortez’s painted Lombardi trophy at the Locker Room in downtown San José. Photo: Brian Anderson, ’24 MFA Digital Media Art....
by Rhoda Shapiro | Apr 13, 2026 | Academics, Top
San José State Ranks #2 Nationwide in CodeSignal’s 2026 University Report In the newly released CodeSignal’s 2026 University Ranking Report, San José State is ranked #2 in the nation. The ranking is based upon the demonstrated programming and software engineering...
by Tomas Sanchez | Apr 10, 2026 | Adobe@SJSU, Featured
How Adobe is Involved in SJSU Careers At the Elevate Career Hub opening on March 25, 2026. Left to right: Bobbi Makani, Catherine Voss Plaxton, Mari Fuentes-Martin, Cynthia Teniente-Matson, Amy White, and Mo Ramos. Photo by Brian Anderson. The Career Center at San...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Apr 9, 2026 | Featured
SJSU Receives $1.875 Million CSU Grant to Support Asian American and Pacific Islander Students An SJSU delegation attended the California AANHPI Student Achievement Program Summit held at Sacramento State University in February 2026. From left to right: Lilly Pinedo...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Apr 3, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured
“Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week In an effort to build awareness, activism and community-building that amplifies the voices and perspectives of Black mothers and birthing people, the Black Mamas Matter...
by SJSU Editor | Apr 1, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
CSU Releases Findings After Conducting the Largest and Most Comprehensive Survey on Artificial Intelligence in Higher Education Responses from more than 94,000 students, faculty and staff reveal higher education’s promising yet complex relationship with AI. Copy and...
by SJSU Editor | Mar 25, 2026 | Research and Innovation, SJ26, Top
San Jose Unveils “100 Sharks – Stitching Districts” to Connect Communities Along New “Sharks Way” By Lou Jimenez, ’23 Art History, Street Life Manager for the San José Downtown Association “100 Sharks – Stitching Districts,”...
by Sam Kamangar | Mar 25, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
Women in AI Panel Brings Civic and Tech Leaders Together at King Library From left: Sheryl Ehrman, Sandy Hirsh Amanda Renteria, President Cynthia Teniente-Matson and Lili Gangas at King Library on March 23. Photo: Robert C. Bain. SAN JOSÉ — On March 23, engineers,...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 24, 2026 | Athletics, Community Engagement, Featured, SJ26
Digital Media Arts Faculty and Students Project “Free Throw” Light Installation at SAP Center During NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament A sneak preview of “Free Throw,” a project by Digital Media Arts Professor G. Craig Hobbs and his...
by Adriana Avila | Mar 23, 2026 | Academics, Awards and Achievements, Featured
Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Continues to Rank Among California’s Best Business Schools for Undergraduates San José State University’s Lucas College and Graduate School of Business has once again been recognized as a premier business school,...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Mar 23, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured, Leadership
Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU Dean of Students Heather French; © 2026 SJSU, photo by Robert C. Bain, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED In May 2025, Heather French became the first person to step into the role of San José State’s...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 23, 2026 | Awards and Achievements, Featured
San José State Honors 2026 Outstanding Faculty and Staff This April, several outstanding faculty and staff will be honored in a special ceremony. As home to 40,000 students and nearly 5,000 staff members, San José State is essentially a city of its own within the...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 20, 2026 | Athletics, Featured, SJ26
Human Rights Institute Hosts Panel on the Evolving Landscape of Collegiate Sports in Advance of the NCAA Tournament L-R: Anne Marie Todd, dean of the College of Social Sciences, with Nicole Bolter, Travis Boyce, Summer Jackson and Jay Mitchell at the March 19 Human...
by communications | Mar 19, 2026 | Featured, Top
My Thoughts on the César Chávez Reports, and Our Path Forward as a University Community To the San José State University Community, As I read the recent investigative reporting regarding César Chávez, I experienced the shock, disappointment, and despair that I know...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 18, 2026 | Awards and Achievements, Featured
Spartans of Significance Event Honors The Doobie Brothers, “Krazy” George, Roy and PJ Hirabayashi and Nora Lacey Betyousef On March 12, SJSU recognized (from left to right) “Krazy” George Henderson; Tom Johnston; and (right of SJSU President Cynthia...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 16, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured
Leading the Change: Spartan Women Share Stories of Sustainability in Honor of Women’s History Month This March, SJSU leaders share their visions of sustainable futures in honor of Women’s History Month. Women Shaping a Sustainable Future This March, the...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Mar 16, 2026 | Featured
A Lifelong Spartan: Beth Colbert Retires After More Than 20 Years in University Advancement Beth Colbert in her office at SJSU. Photo by Rhoda Shapiro. After 20 and a half years of working in University Advancement, Beth Colbert, ’86 Radio, Television and...
by Brian Cheung Dooley | Mar 12, 2026 | Academics, Featured
Why Data Science Degrees are Valuable in the Era of AI Between 2024 and 2034, the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that data scientist roles will grow by 34% and information security analysts roles will grow by 29% — all far exceeding the national average. In a...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Mar 12, 2026 | Featured, Research and Innovation
$150K from Google.org Advances Carbon Dioxide Removal Research at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories Small-boat work in progress in Kangerdlugssuaq Sermerssua Fjord, West Greenland. Photo courtesy of Dustin Carroll. Imagine a world where the large-scale removal of...
by Sean Woodland | Mar 9, 2026 | SJSU in the News