Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/awards-and-achievements
Title: Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Continues to Rank Among California’s Best Business Schools for Undergraduates
Type: HTML

by Adriana Avila | Mar 23, 2026 | Academics, Awards and Achievements, Featured
Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Continues to Rank Among California’s Best Business Schools for Undergraduates San José State University’s Lucas College and Graduate School of Business has once again been recognized as a premier business school,...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 23, 2026 | Awards and Achievements, Featured
San José State Honors 2026 Outstanding Faculty and Staff This April, several outstanding faculty and staff will be honored in a special ceremony. As home to 40,000 students and nearly 5,000 staff members, San José State is essentially a city of its own within the...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 18, 2026 | Awards and Achievements, Featured
Spartans of Significance Event Honors The Doobie Brothers, “Krazy” George, Roy and PJ Hirabayashi and Nora Lacey Betyousef On March 12, SJSU recognized (from left to right) “Krazy” George Henderson; Tom Johnston; and (right of SJSU President Cynthia...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Feb 26, 2026 | Awards and Achievements, Featured
Ashley Seering’s “A Lovely Uncontrollable Thing” Makes West Coast Premiere at the Cinequest Film and Creativity Festival Ashley Seering’s short documentary of artist Victoria Moore, “A Lovely Uncontrollable Thing,” makes its West Coast premiere at the Cinequest Film...
by Adriana Avila | Feb 18, 2026 | Academics, Awards and Achievements, Featured
SJSU’s MBA Program Climbs 16 Spots in Fortune’s Best MBA Programs of 2026 On February 17, 2026, as the world ushers in the Lunar New Year, San José State University is welcoming something new of its own: a new ranking among Fortune’s Best MBA programs for 2026. The...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Feb 2, 2026 | Awards and Achievements, Featured
The College of Social Sciences and the Connie L. Lurie College of Education Receives $2.4 Million Grant from the U.S. Department of Education to Advance AI Literacy Left to right: Dogukan Ozgen, Lois Takahashi, Ellen Middaugh, Anne Marie Todd and Clifton Oyamot are...