Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/alumni
Title: Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer
Type: HTML

by Julia Halprin Jackson | Apr 15, 2026 | Alumni, Featured, SJ26
Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer Emilio Cortez (left) and SJSU President Cynthia Teniente-Matson stand with Cortez’s painted Lombardi trophy at the Locker Room in downtown San José. Photo: Brian Anderson, ’24 MFA Digital Media Art....
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Feb 12, 2026 | Alumni, Featured
“Row, Don’t Drift” Documentary Shares Yoshi Kubo’s Legacy, Inspiring SJSU Alumni to Advocate for Social Change Chris Kubo (upper left and right) and Dan Kubo (lower left and right) helped establish the Yu-Ai Kai Center in Japantown. Top left and bottom left photos by...
by Sean Woodland | Feb 5, 2026 | Alumni, Featured, SJ26
Deep Dive in Five with Spartan and Former NFL Star Jeff Garcia Jeff Garcia, ’97 Marketing, competed on several NFL teams, including the San Francisco 49ers. Photo courtesy of SJSU Athletics. Jeff Garcia, ’97 Marketing, is a four-time Canadian Football League...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Oct 14, 2025 | Alumni, Featured, Leadership
From SJSU Student to Startup Visionary: Zain Zaidi’s Journey to Co-Founding TransCrypts TransCrypts Co-Founders Ali Zaheer (left) and Zain Zaidi, ’21 Electrical Engineering. Photo courtesy of TransCrypts. When Zain Zaidi, ’21 Electrical Engineering, co-founded his...
by Cassie Myers | May 1, 2025 | Academics, Alumni, Featured
Brian Kohne: Maui Boy Makes Good Brian Kohne (center) directing on the set of one of his two feature films. Photo courtesy of Brian Kohne. One of the first things you’ll learn about Brian Kohne, ‘89 RTVF, is that he’s a Maui boy — from the age of five up until...
by Trevor Phillips | Apr 9, 2025 | Alumni, Community Engagement, Featured
Volunteers gather to sort eyeglasses for charity. Photo: Trevor Phillips. Despite the gloomy morning in San José, the Vista Center on North Bascom was already bustling with activity as people shuffled inside. Some volunteers briskly weaved through the neatly spaced...