Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/2026/dean-of-students-heather-french-is-shaping-what-student-support-looks-like-at-sjsu
Title: Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU
Type: HTML

Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU
Dean of Students Heather French; © 2026 SJSU, photo by Robert C. Bain, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
In May 2025, Heather French became the first person to step into the role of San José State’s dean of students.
A newly created position within the Division of Student Affairs, the dean of students serves as an advocate for students across the university. In her role, French has been working to enhance the student experience outside of the classroom, providing support for wellness and safety, and for navigating any non-academic challenges that might arise.
“Since the role is new to the campus community, I’ve been working on getting into spaces where students are, so that I can intentionally connect with them,” says French.
French knows it isn’t possible to meet SJSU’s entire student body of over 40,000, but she’s determined to build relationships and rapport with the ones that she is able to meet. French’s office hosts Donuts with the Dean events to connect with students each month.
“Heather’s thoughtful, student-centered leadership — grounded in care, collaboration, and professionalism — has strengthened trust across campus and ensured effective management of complex student concerns,” says Vice President for Student Affairs Mari Fuentes-Martin.
Located on the third floor of the West side of the Student Union, the Dean of Students unit is made up of three different areas.
The first area is student support, which is managed across three different departments: Student Conduct and Ethical Development (SCED), Behavioral Intervention (BIT) and the Student Ombudsperson. SCED maintains fairness in its handling of the student code process; BIT supports the well-being and safety of the campus community; and the Ombudsperson advocates for fairness, offering support with conflict resolution.
The second area is based upon student engagement, which is carried out by various departments. The Student Involvement department oversees student clubs and organizations, while also planning events and leadership opportunities. Associated Students provides advocacy, resources and leadership opportunities for students. The Student Union, Inc. — which includes the Diaz Compean Student Union, the Spartan Recreation and Aquatic Center (SRAC) and the Provident Credit Union Event Center — aims to enhance students’ college experience through diverse programs and resources.
The third area of the Dean of Students unit is focused on student advocacy; and although it isn’t tied to a particular department, it’s a function of French’s role.
“It’s about thinking of how I can be of support to students during different times of the year. This can even be related to things like emergency or crisis situations,” says French.
Student advocacy also includes overseeing time, place and manner; and working to have a coordinated response in matters of freedom of expression. If there are expressive or free speech activities on campus, French and her team are there on site to provide support. They also work to post signage to let people walking by know what to expect.
When French was a college student at Bradford College, a small liberal arts school in Massachusetts, she had the opportunity of interning for Trey Williams, the school’s dean of students.
“I was fortunate to be mentored by my dean of students,” says French. “He went out of his way to help me develop as a leader.”
At first, French had a hard time believing in her capabilities to lead and share her voice. She noticed that Williams, who has since retired, had a larger-than-life personality, which was very different from her own. She worried that, perhaps, this space wasn’t meant for her. But over time, she realized that she had to let the doubts go and just be herself.
“I realized early in my career, that going forward, I just had to show up as authentically and genuinely in every space I’m in as much as I can,” says French. “I can’t show up as someone else. I have to be myself.”
As a first-generation college student, French had the opportunity of being part of a very diverse campus community. In this space, she felt right at home, immersed in the richness and vibrancy of different cultures and perspectives. And that is exactly what attracted her to San José State.
“Among the students here, there’s a passion, commitment and desire to not just achieve their goals, but also to serve as an example for their family and to uplift their community. And there’s a sacredness to that,” says French. “San José State students are excited and hopeful. They’re changemakers.”