Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom
Title: San José State Ranks #2 Nationwide in CodeSignal’s 2026 University Report
Type: HTML

San José State Ranks #2 Nationwide in CodeSignal’s 2026 University Report
CodeSignal’s 2026 University Ranking Report puts San José State as the #2 university in the nation. Climbing 47 spots since 2021, SJSU is ahead of the nation's most elite universities in producing top student talent in programming and software engineering. At SJSU, students get the Spartan Edge to enter the job market prepared and ready.
Featured Stories
Emilio Cortez: Artist, Community Champion, Game Changer
The Spartan artist’s creative fingerprint is all over the Bay Area — especially this year.
How Adobe is Involved in SJSU Careers
San José State’s Career Center is expanding opportunities for student success through its growing partnership with Adobe, bringing industry-leading tools and expertise directly to campus.
SJSU Receives $1.875 Million CSU Grant to Support Asian American and Pacific Islander Students
San José State University has been awarded a CSU grant to expand support for Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander students.
“Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week
Stop by the Digital Humanities Center on April 14 for a special masterclass on art and activism in honor of the Black Maternal Health Week.
CSU Releases Findings After Conducting the Largest and Most Comprehensive Survey on Artificial Intelligence in Higher Education
Responses from more than 94,000 CSU students, faculty and staff reveal higher education’s promising yet complex relationship with AI.
Women in AI Panel Brings Civic and Tech Leaders Together at King Library
On March 23, engineers, city officials, students and community members filled Room 225 of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library for a conversation about the role of women in shaping the future of artificial intelligence.
Digital Media Arts Faculty and Students Project “Free Throw” Light Installation at SAP Center During NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament
On March 26 and 28, visitors in town to watch the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament will have the chance to pantomime their own free throws in front of an installation outside the SAP Center, designed and programmed by Digital Media Arts Professor G. Craig Hobbs and his students.
Lucas College and Graduate School of Business Continues to Rank Among California’s Best Business Schools for Undergraduates
San José State University’s Lucas College and Graduate School of Business has once again been recognized as a premier business school, maintaining its position as one of the top-ranked public business programs for undergraduate students in California.
Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU
SJSU’s first dean of students is putting connection and care at the center of campus life. Heather French is working to ensure every student feels supported, heard and empowered.
Adobe@SJSU
How Adobe is Involved in SJSU Careers
San José State’s Career Center is expanding opportunities for student success through its growing partnership with Adobe, bringing industry-leading tools and expertise directly to campus.
SJSU in the News
‘AI for All’ center opens in downtown San Jose
KRON
How SJSU Helped Pioneer MAX/MSP and Computer Music Innovation
Metro Silicon Valley
From the SJSU President: The SJSU and CSU Response to the U.S. Department of Education
SJSU President Cynthia Teniente-Matson’s update on the Proposed Resolution Agreement provided by the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights (OCR).
Scientists in California are Blazing New Trails in Fire Weather Research
Environmental Monitor
Creating community to the beat of a taiko drum
AsAm News
Binh Danh’s photographs explore America’s national parks as political landscapes
Monterey County Now