Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/community-engagement
Title: “Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week
Type: HTML

by Julia Halprin Jackson | Apr 3, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured
“Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week In an effort to build awareness, activism and community-building that amplifies the voices and perspectives of Black mothers and birthing people, the Black Mamas Matter...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Mar 24, 2026 | Athletics, Community Engagement, Featured, SJ26
Digital Media Arts Faculty and Students Project “Free Throw” Light Installation at SAP Center During NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament A sneak preview of “Free Throw,” a project by Digital Media Arts Professor G. Craig Hobbs and his...
by SJSU Editor | Mar 4, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured, Research and Innovation
San José State University and Teradyne Partner to Advance Engineering Education and Workforce Readiness Image Courtesy of Teradyne. by Derrick Meyer, Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering San José, Calif. — San José State University (SJSU) is strengthening its...
by SJSU Editor | Mar 3, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured
City of San José and San José State University Open AI Center for Civic and Social Good at Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library L-R: San José City Librarian Jill Bourne; Director of Partner Education Thought Leadership and Student Success at Adobe Brian Johnsrud; SJSU...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Feb 20, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured
SJSU Reflects on History During 2026 Day of Remembrance San José State University’s Day of Remembrance is an annual event that commemorates the signing of Executive Order 9066, which led to the forced incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. The...
by SJSU Editor | Feb 19, 2026 | Community Engagement, Featured
From Silicon Valley Classrooms to the National Stage: San José State Programming Team Advances to National Finals for First Time in History L-R: The dream team: Amarjargal Ayurzana, Eliot Hall and Theon Olaivar. Photo: Derrick Meyer. By Derrick Meyer, Charles W....