Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/leadership
Title: Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU
Type: HTML

by Rhoda Shapiro | Mar 23, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured, Leadership
Dean of Students Heather French Is Shaping What Student Support Looks Like at SJSU Dean of Students Heather French; © 2026 SJSU, photo by Robert C. Bain, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED In May 2025, Heather French became the first person to step into the role of San José State’s...
by SJSU Editor | Mar 6, 2026 | Featured, Leadership, President in the News
From the SJSU President: The SJSU and CSU Response to the U.S. Department of Education Dear Spartan community, I am writing to let you know that we provided our response to the Proposed Resolution Agreement provided by the U.S. Department of Education, Office for...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Feb 27, 2026 | Featured, Leadership
How SJSU’s Black Faculty and Staff Are Shaping the Spartan Experience This year marks the 100th anniversary of Black History Month. As we celebrate a century of honoring Black achievement and culture, we also recognize the impact Black students, staff and faculty make...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Feb 26, 2026 | Campus Life, Featured, Leadership
Aliya Swan Helps to Amplify Student Voices Through Leadership and Service Aliya Swan in front of the Associated Students House. Photo courtesy of Aliya Swan. This year marks the 100th anniversary of Black History Month. As we celebrate a century of honoring Black...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Feb 20, 2026 | Featured, Leadership
Lydie Kizungu Helps Students Find Belonging at SJSU Ashley Carrasco (left) and Lydie Kizungu (right) tabling for the Guardian Scholars Program. Photo courtesy of Lydie Kizungu. This year marks the 100th anniversary of Black History Month. As we celebrate a century of...
by Rhoda Shapiro | Feb 13, 2026 | Featured, Leadership
Ki’donyae Bell is Making an Impact Through Community Ki’donyae Bell on campus at SJSU. Photo courtesy of Ki’donyae Bell. This year marks the 100th anniversary of Black History Month. As we celebrate a century of honoring Black achievement and culture, we also...