Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/category/diversity-equity-and-inclusion
Title: Running in Prayer: The 500 Mile American Indian Spiritual Marathon
Type: HTML

by Julia Halprin Jackson | Dec 20, 2024 | Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Featured
Running in Prayer: The 500 Mile American Indian Spiritual Marathon The “Running in Prayer” exhibit featuring items from the 500 Mile American Indian Spiritual Marathon is on display in the King Library’s AAACNA Center through January 5. This fall,...
by Cassie Myers | Aug 27, 2024 | Campus Life, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Featured
Karen Singmaster Helps Students RISE Karen Singmaster, the director of the RISE program since 2008 and the current department chair of chemistry. Photo by David Schmitz. The Research Initiative for Scientific Enhancement Program (RISE) program at San José State has...
by Lesley Seacrist | Aug 7, 2024 | Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Featured
Sounds of South Asia Exhibit Showcases Musical Traditions From Seven Countries SJSU Collection Strategy Librarian Mantra Roy at the South Asians in Silicon Valley exhibit in SJSU King Library’s DiNapoli Gallery. The library will host a special evening of South...
by Lesley Seacrist | Aug 1, 2024 | Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Featured
Riding Low and Slow: Empowering Communities by Building Collections Estella Inda, research services and social sciences librarian at the SJSU King Library, curated a special exhibit dedicated to lowrider culture on display in the library through September 15. Photo by...
by Julia Halprin Jackson | Jun 17, 2024 | Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Featured
“A” is for “Author:” Maya Ealey’s Illustrated Resource Guide “E” is for equity and equality, as illustrated by Maya Ealey, author of “The Anti-Racist Vocab Guide: An Illustrated Introduction to Dismantling Anti-Blackness.” Image courtesy of the...
by Michelle Smith McDonald | Apr 22, 2024 | Campus Life, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, Featured
Deep Dive in Five with Randy Rodriguez: Resources for Spartans with Autism Accommodations counselor and coordinator Randy Rodriguez received the 2023-24 Staff of the Year Award for his work with the Accessible Education Center. Photo by Robert C. Bain. Making SJSU a...