Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/2026/ways-to-convey-masterclass-at-king-library-is-rooted-in-joy-for-black-maternal-health-week
Title: “Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week
Type: HTML

“Ways to Convey” Masterclass at King Library is Rooted in Joy for Black Maternal Health Week
In an effort to build awareness, activism and community-building that amplifies the voices and perspectives of Black mothers and birthing people, the Black Mamas Matter Alliance founded Black Maternal Health Week (BMHW), an annual weeklong campaign. For this year’s BMHW, the SJSU King Library and Black Leadership and Opportunity Center (BLOC) partnered with the African American Community Service Agency and artist-activist Chamia LaRae to host “Ways to convey: A masterclass in bridging creativity and activism in support of Black Mamas.” The theme of BMHW this year is “Rooted in Joy.”
The event, which will be held on Tuesday, April 14 at King Library’s Digital Humanities Center between 11 a.m. – 3 p.m., also offers participants the chance to connect with community partners such as the County of Santa Clara Black Infant Health (BIH) Program; the County of Santa Clara Women, Infants, and Children Program (WIC); the County of Santa Clara Perinatal Equity Initiative (PEI); Roots Community Health; the SJSU Department of Public Health; and Ujima Adult and Family Services, Inc.
Want to learn more about the masterclass? LaRae answered some questions about the April 14 event and the connection between art and activism for today’s Deep Dive in Five. Dawn Hackman, health sciences and scholarly communications librarian at King Library, also shares some responses.
How do you see art as an effective means to make social change?
Chamia LaRae (CL): For centuries, there’s been a connection between art and social issues. There’s documented history of this across continents and cultures. Art has been a mechanism for informing people on what’s happening, the impact of such, and has also served as a catalyst for change. We need to think broadly of the arts, first, to recognize the many ways artists have spoken out and continue to speak out for social change. Music, poetry, plays, paintings, stories and other artistic expressions have been formulated to capture, report and influence the trajectories of society through artistic lens.
Plays such as “A Raisin in the Sun” by Lorraine Hansberry, “An Enemy of the People” by Henrik Ibsen, or “The Vagina Monologues” by Eve Ensler are good examples. Songs like “No More Auction Block” by Paul Robeson (which not only spoke of issues and experiences of Black Americans but also inspired other artists to create, like Bob Dylan), “Inner City Blues (Make Me Wanna Holler)” by Marvin Gaye, “Strange Fruit” by Billie Holiday, “The Message” by Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, “People Get Ready” written by Curtis Mayfield, “This is America” by Childish Gambino, “Mississippi Goddamn” by Nina Simone, “Killing in the Name Of” by Rage Against the Machine … the list goes on.
Look at the role music played in the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa. The works of literary greats like James Baldwin, Toni Morrison, Nikki Giovanni and more. Murals popped up all over the world following the brutal murder of George Floyd. Editorial illustrations in newspapers and magazines are another form of artistic expression and one that has been more acceptable by certain demographics in reflecting social issues and inciting change. Art captures history from the viewpoint of the artist and the experience of the people, even when history books and newspapers don’t. Art reminds and inspires us to be better. It emboldens us to say: Never again! It galvanizes us to say: Together, we will! Creativity is within us all. It’s free. Exercising that freedom is its own form of resistance and activism.
What would you like folks to understand about Black maternal health, or how disparities in our health system affect women of color?
CL: There’s so much I want people to know and understand about this. People should know who Dr. J. Marion Sims is — the so-called father of modern gynecology. They should know how he tortured, mutilated and murdered countless Black women in the name of his gynecologic research. Think about what it means to have a “modern gynecology” system created by someone who had no regard for the lives of Black women and how that impacts the lives and experiences of Black girls and women today.
They should know that for all the trillions of dollars poured into medical research, there have not been significant advances in the way vaginas are probed and examined since slavery. They should know the data-supported facts about how Black girls and women receive worse treatment when interacting with health systems in this country and have more adverse outcomes by design. They should know that Black mothers are an essential part of our earth ecosystem and without Black mothers, our whole planet suffers. What happens to one, absolutely can happen to all. More than anything, I want people to know that when you know better, you MUST do better. Use your voice, your access and your privilege to advocate for those who can’t advocate for themselves, and for those whose voices the powers that be refuse to listen to.
Dawn Hackman (DH): As a health sciences librarian, I’m passionate about health literacy, commonly defined as “the degree to which individuals have the ability to find, understand, and use information and services to inform health-related decisions and actions for themselves and others” (from NNLM An Introduction to Health Literacy website). That’s often how librarians such as myself become involved in health advocacy work. But while I think health literacy has its role in health equity work, it’s horribly unfair to blame all health inequities on lower health literacy, especially when it comes to Black mothers and birthing people.
Research shows that Black maternal and infant health disparities persist across educational attainment and income. To quote a 2025 report published by KFF.org (“Racial Disparities in Maternal and Infant Health: Current Status and Key Issues“): “Data show higher pregnancy-related mortality rates among Black women who completed college education than among White women with the same educational attainment and White women with less than a high school diploma” [emphasis mine].
Furthermore, the media is full of examples of Black women physicians, nurses and midwives (with a recent example from January 2026) who suffered poor outcomes during childbirth, including their own deaths, despite being able to advocate for themselves and/or having loved ones advocate on their behalf. In my opinion: Black maternal and infant health inequities are multifactorial and focusing on one area, such as health literacy or self-advocacy, is insufficient and amounts to blaming the victims. We can’t put the onus of change on the shoulders of those most directly harmed. Health inequities are created and perpetuated by systems. And because all Americans at minimum exist within these systems, if not actively maintain or benefit from them, so too should we all have a part to play in undoing the harm done.
What kind of artwork will you be producing (or inspiring) during the master class?
CL: In Ways to Convey: A masterclass in bridging creativity and activism in support of Black Mamas, attendees will have the opportunity to express and create art in various mediums (ex: paintings, poetry, stories, song…). People express and create in different ways and I want to provide a safe space for people to express what they’d like to in a way that’s meaningful to them.
Why are libraries a good home base for events such as these?
CL: Libraries are excellent, neutral, community gathering places. They’re locations for giving and receiving knowledge, information and culture. Libraries are gateways to the world (most of them providing free access to the world). As such and especially at the critical point we’re at in America where access to certain books, and certain topics on human experience are being defunded and restricted — libraries are essential for events, discussion and community building.
Are there any other messages you’d like to share with SJSU audiences?
CL: Knowledge is power! Come learn with us! Come build with us! Come create with us!
DH: All SJSU students have the potential to make a difference in this area, regardless of their age, gender, race or ethnicity. Nor does it matter whether they parent, have given birth, or ever intend to. You don’t have to be a future healthcare provider, public health official or politician either. All that’s required is that you educate yourself on the issues and look for ways to be involved, whether those ways are big or small.
Write letters to local or state politicians, urging legislation in the support of health equity and/or reproductive or birthing justice. Donate to local aid groups, especially those that are Black womxn-led. Volunteer. Get to know your neighbors. Build community. Vote! There’s a million ways SJSU students can make a difference. And I hope campus events like this one will inspire them to do so.
The masterclass is free and open to the public. Save your spot by registering at tiny.sjsu.edu/BMHW26.