Source: https://blogs.sjsu.edu/newsroom/2026/cadre-basketball-installation
Title: Digital Media Arts Faculty and Students Project “Free Throw” Light Installation at SAP Center During NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament
Type: HTML

Digital Media Arts Faculty and Students Project “Free Throw” Light Installation at SAP Center During NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament
A sneak preview of “Free Throw,” a project by Digital Media Arts Professor G. Craig Hobbs and his students that will be displayed on the SAP Center during the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament. Image courtesy of G. Craig Hobbs.
In basketball, a free throw is an unobstructed, one-point shot offered to a player after a member of the opposing team commits a personal or technical foul. For Gary Craig Hobbs, professor of digital media art at San José State’s CADRE Laboratory for New Media, a free throw is a unique invitation to play for artists and athletes alike.
On March 26 and 28, visitors in town to watch the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament will have the chance to pantomime their own free throws in front of an installation outside the SAP Center, designed and programmed by Hobbs and his students to replicate the participant’s movements via 100-foot light projection.
“The free throw shot is a moment in the game where there’s a pause in play, a moment of suspense and drama that provides an opportunity for recompense or reconciliation for a foul committed during the game,” Hobbs says. “The work is a celebration of art and sport in celebration of human potential and as an allegory for community healing.”
In summer 2025, Hobbs and fellow CADRE faculty member Esteban Garcia Bravo, assistant professor of digital media art, were commissioned by the Office of Cultural Affairs at the City of San José to propose a project as part of SJ26. While Garcia Bravo’s projects led him to City Hall and other sites across the city, Hobbs gravitated toward the SAP Center’s exterior facade, which provides the space and infrastructure necessary for a large-scale projection. Hobbs and Garcia Bravo created classes connected to their SJ26 projects to facilitate service learning opportunities for their students.
“It’s really special that our roles at San José State University as faculty members and our roles as public artists who have exhibited all over the world are being embraced,” Hobbs says. “It is a celebration of the public, of creativity, collaboration and culture in a city that I’ve had the opportunity to work in for 20 years.”
This year also marks the 40th anniversary of CADRE, founded as the Computers, Art, Design, Research and Education Laboratory to offer fine arts undergraduate and graduate programs at the intersection of design, technology and art. Hobbs sees the opportunities presented by SJ26 as an exciting launchpad for artists, faculty and the community at large. Though he and Garcia Bravo are leading different projects, they share a vision for embedding and involving student artists as much as possible.
For Free Throw, players from the public are given three free throw shots at an LED-illuminated free-standing basketball hoop using internally lit glowing basketballs. The work creates a stunning interactive digital artwork projected onto the east facade of SAP Center along Barack Obama Boulevard.
“We’re very focused on bringing students into the process, not just as laborers or workers to fulfill our vision, but to invite them to become true collaborators in the creation of artwork and public experiences,” says Hobbs. “San José State represents 80 countries from around the world, so our student community of over 400 students in digital media art represents the future, as well as the amazing diaspora of people who have come here around technology and culture.”
Fair Use Editorial Disclaimer: “Super Bowl™” is a registered trademark of NFL Properties, LLC. “World Cup” and “FIFA World Cup 2026™” are registered trademarks of the International Federation of Association Football, also known as FIFA. The NCAA™ is also a registered trademark of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Use of any of these terms including “Super Bowl LX”, “World Cup”, “West Regional” and those of the organization names of the National Football League™, NCAA™, and FIFA™ in this article, or in any SJSU NewsCenter articles part of the SJ26 article series are solely for nominative and descriptive fair editorial use in SJSU NewsCenter. Unless stated explicitly, events, activations and collaborations by San José State University, and/or its partners the City of San José, San José Sports Authority, Bay Area Host Committee or others, are not formally affiliated with, sponsored by, or related to any festivities associated with the National Football League’s “Super Bowl™”; “FIFA World Cup 2026™”; or the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA™) festivities taking place within Santa Clara County or the greater Bay Area.
This article is part of a series advancing San José 26 which is a placemaking and cobranding campaign with Team San José, the City of San José, San José Downtown Association, San José State University and others to promote local culture, gatherings and programs happening in San José around major international and national sporting events in the South Bay all throughout 2026. Learn more at sj26.sanjose.org.