Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/admissions/steps-to-apply.php
Title: Steps to Apply
Type: HTML

Steps to Apply
We want your application process to go as smoothly as possible. Review how to prepare for your application, navigate Cal State Apply, and access support from our expert SJSU Online Enrollment Counselors.
Watch our Latest Info Session Recording
Learn from our dedicated SJSU Online Enrollment Counselors, insightful students, and helpful support staff as they highlight our:
-
Valuable and flexible program features
-
Cost and numerous financial aid opportunities
-
Comprehensive student success resources
-
Steps to apply and more!
1. Choose an Application Cycle
Choose when you want to start your SJSU Online program. Applications will only be open on the following dates.
Current and Upcoming Application Cycles
2. Prepare transcripts
Gather your transcripts from the colleges or universities where you have been enrolled so you can easily enter that information on your application and maximize the number of credits you transfer.
All academic information you report on your application must be verified with your official transcripts. Any discrepancy affecting your eligibility could result in the withdrawal of your application or admission.
3. Review admission requirements
Review our admissions requirements, important dates and deadlines, and more. Be also sure to review any program-specific requirements for the degree you are interested in.
4. Meet with an Enrollment Counselor
Schedule an appointment with one of our expert Enrollment Counselors to discuss your questions, complete an unofficial transcript review, and more.
5. Apply through Cal State Apply
Watch our video tutorial above or select any of the bookmarks below for steps to guide you through your SJSU Online application.
If needed, view the Cal State Apply Transfer Application Guide for more support.
Apply Today
There's no better time than now. Take the next step and apply to your SJSU Online program today through Cal State Apply.
Apply NowHave more questions? Request information today.
Fill out this form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn more about how SJSU Online can help you complete your bachelor's degree.