Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/healthcare-leadership.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Healthcare Leadership
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Healthcare Leadership
Develop a deep understanding of knowledge and skills you’ll need to prepare you for professional health care careers in a global market.
Program Information
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Program Length
2 years, 60 units
Cost Per Unit
$500 for Summer · $525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadline
July 1 for August start
Shape the Quality and Impact of Health Services
Healthcare leadership skills are essential for shaping the future effectiveness and quality of healthcare services, which is in demand at employers like Kaiser Permanente, Stanford Health Care, Sutter Health, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and many more. Develop comprehensive leadership skills in interprofessional collaboration, financial principles, and management and strategies.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Healthcare Leadership degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to all SJSU Online bachelor's degree-completion programs must fulfill our general admissions requirements:
-
Complete at least 60 transferable semester or 90 quarter units. A maximum of 70 semester units from community colleges can be transferred toward the degree. Depending on the program, you could have as few as 50 semester units at the time of application.
-
Complete all four CSU-approved general education requirements with a grade C- or higher.
-
(A1) Oral Communication/Speech
-
(A2) Written English Composition
-
(A3) Critical Thinking/Logic
-
(B4) Math/Quantitative Reasoning
-
-
Have an overall grade point average of 2.0 or better.
-
Students from Oregon enrolled in an SJSU Online program will be subject to Oregon State requirements for transferring course works. Specifically, a grade of “C” or better must be earned in all General Education courses.
-
Graduation Requirement: Complete all CSU Lower Division General Education requirements.
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Interdisciplinary Studies, Health Care Leadership, BS catalog webpage.
Valuable Learning Experiences
Our interdisciplinary and practical program will provide you with the experiences and confidence to immediately impact the healthcare field.
-
Coursework focuses on health care leadership skills, financial principles, management strategies and standards to improve patient care.
-
You’ll also take courses in the physical and social sciences, giving you a well-rounded education to pursue careers in allied health roles or to prepare you for entry into a variety of health-related graduate degree programs.
Featured Courses
What can you do with a Health Care Leadership degree?
The flexibility offered by our Interdisciplinary Studies degree in Health Care Leadership, and the practical skills learned in the program, lead to many exciting careers in fields as diverse as public health, health education and administration, marketing and public relations, media, policy, research, clinical care, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development and sales, worksite wellness, politics, government, and environmental health among others.
Healthcare leadership majors in California earn an average annual salary of $78,000 and an upper range of $123,000, according to Zip Recruiter.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of our alumni, according to LinkedIn.
Top Job Titles
- Clinical Data Developer
- Product Manager
- Quality Consultant
- Rare Disease Patient Access Manager
- Research Finance Manager
- Senior Campaign Manager
- Senior Management Analyst
- Workplace Health Specialist
Top Companies
- Kaiser Permanente
- Santa Clara County Valley Medical Center
- Stanford Health Care
- Sutter Health
- U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Top Sectors
- Administration
- Business development
- Community and social services
- Healthcare services
- Information technology
- Operations
- Research
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Health Care Leadership degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid