Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/communication-studies.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Communication Studies
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Communication Studies
Develop a deep understanding of communication theory, research, and practical applications.
Program Overview
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Program Length
2 years, 60 units
Cost Per Unit
$525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadline
July 1 for August start
Become a Knowledgeable and Skillful Communicator
Communication Studies prepares competent, compassionate, and ethical communicators for meaningful participation in diverse local and global communities, which are skills that are in demand at companies like Apple, the City of San José, Google, ServiceNow, TikTok, and many more. Examine the interplay of communications between individuals and groups, explore the complexity of communication efforts with a multitude of communities and cultures, and interrogate the implications of human communication in a technologically mediated world.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Communication Studies degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to this programs must fulfill our general SJSU Online requirements:
-
Complete at least 60 transferable semester or 90 quarter units. A maximum of 70 semester units from community colleges can be transferred toward the degree. Depending on the program, you could have as few as 50 semester units at the time of application.
-
Complete all four CSU-approved general education requirements with a grade C- or higher.
-
(A1) Oral Communication/Speech
-
(A2) Written English Composition
-
(A3) Critical Thinking/Logic
-
(B4) Math/Quantitative Reasoning
-
-
Have an overall grade point average of 2.0 or better.
-
Students from Oregon enrolled in an SJSU Online program will be subject to Oregon State requirements for transferring course works. Specifically, a grade of “C” or better must be earned in all General Education courses.
-
Graduation Requirement: Complete all CSU Lower Division General Education requirements.
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Communication Studies, BA catalog page.
Valuable Learning Experiences
Our program is designed around four cornerstones — democracy, diversity, technology, and globalization — to ensure you are equipped with the knowledge and skills for a wide range of career paths.
-
Examine the historical formation of the communication studies discipline and how it shapes communication as a central problem in contemporary life.
-
Apply a set of communication-related concepts to a problem or phenomenon in a significant relational, sociopolitical, or cultural context.
-
Learn how to design your future as a communication leader in contemporary society.
Featured Courses
What can you do with a Communication Studies degree?
Our program prepares alumni for a wide range of careers in areas such as education, sales, marketing, public relations, human resource development, law, politics, and community service.
Communication studies majors in California earn an average annual salary of $93,000 and an upper range of $178,000, according to Zip Recruiter.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of our alumni, according to LinkedIn.
Top Job Titles
- Career counselor
- Chief marketing officer
- Communications manager
- Disability management specialist
- Healthcare recruiter
- Project manager
- Workplace experience coordinator
Top Companies
- Apple
- Braven
- City of San José
- ServiceNow
- Stanford University
- TikTok
Top Sectors
- Business development
- Community and social services
- Education
- Human resources
- Media and communication
- Operations
- Sales
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Communication Studies degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid