Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/psychology.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Psychology
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Psychology
Develop a deep understanding of the complexities of human thought and behavior in a sociocultural context.
Program Overview
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Program Length
2 years, 60 units
Cost Per Unit
$525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadlines
July 1 for August start
Understand the Science Behind Human Behavior
Why do we think, feel, and behave the way we do? Why do habits form so easily, but change so slowly? How do relationships, culture, biology, and experience shape who we are?
These are the kinds of questions explored in psychology, the scientific study of mind and behavior, and they’re questions that matter in everyday life. Through our program, you will see how psychologists use research and evidence, not intuition or pop psychology, to better understand people and solve real-world problems. Whether you are preparing for graduate studies or exploring any number of career paths, this program is the start of your journey.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Psychology degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to all SJSU Online bachelor's degree-completion programs must fulfill our general admissions requirements. Additionally, applicants to our Bachelor's in Psychology must complete the following courses to be eligible for admission:
-
PSYC 1 - Introduction to Psychology
-
STAT 95 - Elementary Statistics
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Psychology, BA catalog page.
Valuable Learning Experiences
In this program, you will be introduced to psychology as both a science and a way of understanding the human experience. Additionally, you will explore topics that touch nearly every part of your life, including learning and memory, emotion and motivation, social behavior, mental health, development across the lifespan, and the brain itself, which will enable you to:
-
Better understand yourself and others
-
Think more critically about claims you encounter in the media and everyday life
-
Recognize how culture, environment, and social systems shape behavior
-
Apply scientific thinking to real-world issues, from health and relationships to education and work
Featured Courses
What can you do with a Psychology degree?
Our well-rounded program provides a solid foundation for careers in a variety of sectors including mental health agencies, hospitals, teaching, business and public organizations.
Psychology majors in California earn an average annual salary of $91,000 and an upper range of $154,000, according to Zip Recruiter.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of our alumni, according to LinkedIn.
Top Job Titles
- Brand Marketing Manager
- Clinical Social Worker / Mental Health Therapist
- Director of Online Education and Learning Resources
- Disability Management Specialist
- Human Resources Operations Coordinator
- Research Specialist
- School Counselor
Top Companies
- Apple
- County of Santa Clara
- Kaiser Permanente
- Pacific Clinics
- SJSU
Top Sectors
- Business Development
- Community and Social Services
- Education
- Healthcare Services
- Operations
Contact an Enrollment Counselor
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Communication Studies degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid