Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/public-health.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Public Health
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Public Health
Develop a deep understanding of how to advance equitable public health solutions and prevent unjust disparities in public health outcomes.
Program Information
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
Accelerated 8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Course Format
Synchronous and asynchronous courses
Program Length
2 years, 60 units
Cost Per Unit
$500 for Summer · $525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadline
July 1 for August start
Improve Health Outcomes for Diverse Communities
Public health promotes the health and wellbeing of populations and recognizes that health is a fundamental human right, which is in demand at employers like the California Department of Public Health, the Healthier Kids Foundation, Kaiser Permanente, Stanford University, Sutter Health, and more. Learn how environmental, social, economic, behavioral, biological and political factors influence human health.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Public Health degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to all SJSU Online bachelor's degree-completion programs must fulfill our general admissions requirements. Additionally, applicants to our Bachelor's in Public Health must complete the following courses to be eligible for admission:
-
PH 1 - Understanding Your Health
-
PH 15 - Human Life Span
-
PH 67 - Introductory Health Statistics, or equivalent statistics course
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Public Health, BS catalog webpage.
Valuable Learning Experiences
Our program has a long history of enriching the community health workforce around the world, and training students to become scholars, practitioners, and advocates who work to eliminate differences in health outcomes. Upon completion of the degree, you will be ready to:
-
Demonstrate an ability to deliver public health messages in written, oral, and media-based formats to both public and professional audiences.
-
Use public health methods and tools to collect and analyze population health data.
-
Analyze the effects of multiple levels of policy and health systems on population and individual health outcomes and employ strategies to participate in the policy process.
-
Apply principles of social justice, through the lens of cultural humility, to achieve and sustain health equity.
Featured Courses
What can you do with a Public Health degree?
Our graduates work collaboratively with diverse communities to conduct investigations and create relevant interventions that strengthen community capacity, promote health, and reduce health inequities and disparities.
Public Health majors in the Bay Area earn an average annual salary of $93,000 and an upper range of $149,000, according to Zip Recruiter.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of our alumni, according to LinkedIn.
Top Job Titles
- Bilingual health education specialist
- Clinical research coordinator
- Community initiatives manager
- Health and benefits consulting analyst
- Mental health associate
- Patient service representative
- People operations
- Student family services manager
Top Companies
- California Department of Public Health
- Carbon Health
- County of Santa Clara
- Healthier Kids Foundation
- Kaiser Permanente
- Santa Clara Valley Medical Center
- Stanford University
- Sutter Health
- University of California, San Francisco
Top Sectors
- Community and social services
- Customer success and support
- Education
- Healthcare services
- Information technology
- Operations
- Program and project management
- Research
Expert Faculty and Diverse Classmates
Learn about the expertise of our Public Health faculty and how our program is enabling students from all walks of life to accomplish their goals.
Loading video content...
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Public Health degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid