Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/online-learning/index.php
Title: Online Learning
Type: HTML

Online Learning
Maximize your online learning experience with a flexible learning structure, support from faculty and academic advising, helpful campus resources, and diverse classmates.
How Does Online Learning Work?
SJSU Online offers a flexible and effective learning experience that mirrors the quality and rigor of our on-campus programs. Through engaging instructional videos, interactive modules, and expert faculty instruction, you'll receive the same high-quality education as our in-person students. Our 100% online format allows you to learn on your own schedule, fitting your education seamlessly into your life.
Flexible Structure
All of our courses are 100% Online. Some of our programs are fully asynchronous and others offer a mix of synchronous and asynchronous courses so that you can complete a quality degree from SJSU while balancing work, family, and other life commitments.
Authentic Degree from SJSU
Our courses are taught by SJSU's own esteemed faculty. As you complete your degree, you will earn a diploma that will say "San José State University" and be able to attend commencement in-person.
Loading video content...
Intuitive and Consistent Experience
Our expert SJSU faculty and instructional design team develop courses in the Canvas online learning platform that have an easy and consistent navigation, a cohesive design, and an intuitive user experience. The content is also designed with students in mind so that there are opportunities for human interaction and access to all of the tools and resources necessary for academic success.
Streamlined Academic Calendar
There are 5, 8-week sessions within the SJSU Online academic year: Fall A, Fall B, Spring A, Spring B, and Summer. You can apply to begin at any of the 5 sessions and take classes during each of the sessions to ensure that you can start at your convenience and are able to balance your education and life commitments while making progress towards your degree.
Notes: Our SJSU Online Information Science and Data Analytics program follows a more traditional fall and spring semester format and only admits students for a Fall A or Spring A start. Our Business Administration and Public Health programs do not admit students for a summer start.
Learn more about student experience
Explore more about what your learning experience will be like at SJSU Online.
Academic Advising
Meet the advising team who will help you succeed in your academic journey.
Meet the AdvisorsCampus Resources
Access helpful campus resources to help maximize your academic success.
Explore ResourcesClassmates and Community
Learn alongside diverse and motivated classmates from all walks of life.
Discover Our CommunityLet's get started. Request information today.
Fill out this form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn more about how SJSU Online can help you complete your bachelor's degree.