Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/online-learning/academic-advising.php
Title: Academic Advising and Student Success
Type: HTML

Academic Advising and Student Success
From admission to graduation, our Student Success Advising Team will meet with you individually throughout your program to discuss your academic goals, create a personalized success plan, and stay on track to complete your degree.
Comprehensive Academic Advising
As an SJSU Online student, you will receive one-to-one support from one of our expert Student Success Advisors throughout your program. They will work with you on everything from creating a personalized success plan and completing new student orientation to navigating course registration and accessing valuable campus resources.
Meet the Advisors
Our Student Success Advisors have extensive experience with supporting students from all walks of life on their academic journeys and are passionate about helping you suceeed.
Jake Lorchueya
Jake has experience in admission and recruitment, academic coaching, community college advising, and dual enrollment/high school enrichment advising. With his lived experiences and accumulated knowledge, Jake aims to make students feel supported and empowered throughout their journey in higher education.
Jamie Carranza
Jamie has over six years of experience working in higher education. Her professional experiences have centered on student retention and success along with outreach and recruitment.
Nasiha Alicic
Nasiha has worked in both higher education and continuing education, with roles including a graduate teaching assistant, a career services advisor for a video game development and graphic design program. She aims to utilize her experience to help students thrive and develop their sense of self and life-long skills.
Ryan Ploch-Branscum
Ryan has over five years of experience working in higher education. Ryan has demonstrated experience in leading student success programs at SJSU serving as a Lead Academic Advisor in the College of Science, Lead Peer Mentor in the College of Social Sciences, and Academic Support Mentor at University Housing Services.
Sarah Gordon
Sarah Gordon, the Managing Director of Online Student Success, has a Master's Degree in College Counseling and Student Development. With more than a decade of experience in the CSU system, she has a passion for academic advising and for supporting students in an online environment.
Sarah Sholl
Sarah received her undergraduate degree in Human Development at Sonoma State University and her Master’s in Education / Counseling Student and Personnel at San José State University. For the past 8 years, she has worked closely with first generation low-income students. She is passionate about education being accessible and equitable and enjoys working with students who are transitioning into a new school.
Onboarding and Student Orientation
Our Student Success team has designed a self-paced onboarding course to help learn how to navigate the online classroom, establish a foundation for academic success, and review your academic requirements prior to your first term. They will also invite you to attend a live, online orientation so you can chat with the Student Success Advisors, utilize helpful campus resources, and learn about the ways to engage in campus life.
SMS Chatbot Assistant
Once you are enrolled in your SJSU Online program, you will be able to communicate with our chatbot, Sammy the Spartan, at your convenience via text message. SMS Sammy will also send you periodic messages to answer your questions, share important updates, and create a virtual community where your voice matters.
Student Success Workshops
Each term, our Student Success Advising team coordinates a wide range of virtual workshops for you to further enhance your academic and professional skill sets. Topics of previous workshops include Time Management, Utilizing SJSU Library Resources, Finding Your Academic Voice, and Crafting Career Tools.
Learn more about student experience
Explore more about what your learning experience will be like at SJSU Online.
Classmates and Community
Learn alongside diverse and motivated classmates from all walks of life.
Discover Our CommunityCampus Resources
Access helpful campus resources to help maximize your academic success.
Explore ResourcesLet's get started. Request information today.
Fill out this form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn more about how SJSU Online can help you complete your bachelor's degree.