Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/educational-and-community-leadership.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Educational and Community Leadership
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Educational and Community Leadership
Develop a deep understanding of how to advocate for reform in our community institutions to establish equity, access, and social justice.
Program Information
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Program Length
2 or 3 years, 50–60 units
Cost Per Unit
$500 for Summer · $525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadline
July 1 for August start
Create Change and Tackle Inequality
The educational and community leadership way of thinking combines academic disciplines and empowers students to promote change for social justice, which is in demand by employers like the City of San José, San José Unified School District, Santa Clara County Office of Education, Stanford University, and many more. Develop comprehensive leadership, problem solving, communication, and advocacy skills for a fulfilling career in the arts and design, community and social services, education, media and communication, operations, and beyond.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Educational and Community Leadership degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to all SJSU Online bachelor's degree-completion programs must fulfill our general admissions requirements:
-
Complete at least 60 transferable semester or 90 quarter units. A maximum of 70 semester units from community colleges can be transferred toward the degree. Depending on the program, you could have as few as 50 semester units at the time of application.
-
Complete all four CSU-approved general education requirements with a grade C- or higher.
-
(A1) Oral Communication/Speech
-
(A2) Written English Composition
-
(A3) Critical Thinking/Logic
-
(B4) Math/Quantitative Reasoning
-
-
Have an overall grade point average of 2.0 or better.
-
Students from Oregon enrolled in an SJSU Online program will be subject to Oregon State requirements for transferring course works. Specifically, a grade of “C” or better must be earned in all General Education courses.
-
Graduation Requirement: Complete all CSU Lower Division General Education requirements.
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Interdisciplinary Studies, Educational and Community Leadership, BA catalog webpage. Students who choose the Early Childhood Education Specialization must also have or find access to field placement in a suitable early childhood setting.
Valuable Learning Experiences
Our program combines courses from our Departments of Child and Adolescent Development, Communicative Disorders and Sciences, Educational Leadership, Special Education, and Teacher Education and includes plenty of opportunities to apply your learning within and beyond your classes. Completing our program will enhance your ability to:
- Demonstrate leadership skills that promote change for the betterment of all individuals within a community system.
- Create interdisciplinary strategies to manage challenges within one’s professional field.
- Advocate an anti-racist approach to establish social justice with diverse communities.
Featured Classes
Inclusive Education Specialization
Prepare to work with diverse communities – both in school and beyond school education settings – through pathways such as teacher credential programs, special education credential programs, afterschool programs, and resource coordinators. Complete special education credential courses so that you can later complete a special education credential at SJSU with fewer courses and enroll in the credential as an intern.
Early Childhood Education Specialization
Prepare to qualify for a Master Teacher and Site Supervisor Early Childhood Permit. This pathway is recommended if you are interested in later pursuing a credential to become a transitional kindergarten (TK) teacher or a career working with children ages 0-5 and their families.
What can you do with an Educational and Community Leadership degree?
Through exposure to a curriculum that explores societal inequities and methods to accentuate strengths of a community and of its members, you will develop leadership skills that apply to a wide range of careers in education, child and youth services, community organizations, and social services.
Education administrators in the Bay Area earn an average annual salary of $65,000 and an upper range of $106,000, according to Glassdoor.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of our alumni, according to LinkedIn.
Top Job Titles
- Counselor
- Donor and data coordinator
- Elementary teacher
- Health and wellness advisor
- Operations director
- Program manager
- Resource specialist
Top Companies
- City of San José
- East Side Union High School District
- Palo Alto Unified School District
- San José Unified School District
- Santa Clara Unified School District
- SJSU
- Stanford University
Top Sectors
- Arts and design
- Business development
- Community and social services
- Education
- Media and communication
- Operations
Expert Faculty and Diverse Classmates
Learn about the expertise of our Educational and Community Leadership faculty and how our program is enabling students from all walks of life to accomplish their goals.
Loading video content...
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Educational and Community Leadership degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid