Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/public-relations.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Public Relations
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Public Relations
Develop a deep understanding of how to apply adaptable, creative, strategic, and ethical solutions for individuals, brands, or organizations.
Program Information
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Program Length
2 years, 60 units
Cost Per Unit
$500 for Summer · $525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadline
uly 1 for August start
Apply Creative and Integrated Strategies
Public relations (PR) is a strategic communication discipline that is in demand at companies like Apple, the City of San José, Google, Meta, NVIDIA, Salesforce, and much more. Learn how to manage and maintain relationships between an organization and its various stakeholders - including the public, media, employees, investors, customers, and communities.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Public Relations degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to all SJSU Online bachelor's degree-completion programs must fulfill our general admissions requirements:
-
Complete at least 60 transferable semester or 90 quarter units. A maximum of 70 semester units from community colleges can be transferred toward the degree. Depending on the program, you could have as few as 50 semester units at the time of application.
-
Complete all four CSU-approved general education requirements with a grade C- or higher.
-
(A1) Oral Communication/Speech
-
(A2) Written English Composition
-
(A3) Critical Thinking/Logic
-
(B4) Math/Quantitative Reasoning
-
-
Have an overall grade point average of 2.0 or better.
-
Students from Oregon enrolled in an SJSU Online program will be subject to Oregon State requirements for transferring course works. Specifically, a grade of “C” or better must be earned in all General Education courses.
-
Graduation Requirement: Complete all CSU Lower Division General Education requirements.
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Public Relations, BA catalog webpage.
Valuable Learning Experiences
Our program will prepare you for the broad and exciting field of integrated strategic communication. Upon completion of the degree, you will be ready to:
-
Communicate knowledge of the diversity of groups in a global society in relationship to communications.
-
Demonstrate the ability to think critically, creatively, and independently.
-
Write correctly and clearly in forms and styles appropriate for the communication professions, audiences, and purposes they serve.
-
Use tools and technologies appropriate for the communications profession in which they work.
Featured Courses
In addition to our comprehensive core and elective courses, you will also complete a public relations internship to apply the knowledge and skills developed in your courses and acquire valuable work experience.
What can you do with a Public Relations degree?
Through extensive training in strategic integrated communication media, including paid (advertising), earned (media relations), owned (content creation), and shared (social media), our graduates are prepared to excel in a variety of public relations jobs in the Silicon Valley and beyond.
Public relations majors in the Bay Area earn an average annual salary of $79,000 and an upper range of $206,000, according to Glassdoor.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of our alumni, according to LinkedIn.
Top Job Titles
- Account executive
- Associate communications manager
- Content marketing manager
- Media relations specialist
- Public relations account coordinator
- Recruiting coordinator
- Senior marketing manager
- Talent development manager
Top Companies
- Apple
- Cisco
- City of San José
- County of Santa Clara
- Meta
- NVIDIA
- PayPal
- Salesforce
- ServiceNow
Top Sectors
- Business development
- Community and social services
- Customer success and support
- Education
- Human resources
- Marketing
- Media and communication
- Operations
- Sales
Contact an Enrollment Counselor
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Public Relations degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid