Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/programs/science-technology-and-society.php
Title: Online Bachelor's Degree in Science, Technology, and Society
Type: HTML

Online Bachelor's Degree in Science, Technology, and Society
Develop a deep understanding of how technology, culture, and human values shape one another.
Program Overview
Next Start
August 2026 - Fall Term A
Program Format
8-week courses, 5 terms year-round
Program Length
2 years, 60 units
Cost Per Unit
$500 for Summer · $525 for Fall · Financial aid and scholarships available
Application Deadline
July 1 for August start
Create Innovative Solutions for Complex Issues
This interdisciplinary studies program examines the interconnections between science, technology, and society across different times and places. Our students are trained to make an impact in a wide range of careers, including health care, law and public policy, education, science journalism, environmental studies, and technology design. Courses and reading cover a wide range of topics, such as the roles of scientists, engineers, policymakers, corporations, and the public in shaping science; the ethical implications of scientific research and technological advancements; and the social production of science and technology.
Take the next step today. Fill out the form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn about completing your Science, Technology, and Society (STS) degree.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to all SJSU Online bachelor's degree-completion programs must fulfill our general admissions requirements:
-
Complete at least 60 transferable semester or 90 quarter units. A maximum of 70 semester units from community colleges can be transferred toward the degree. Depending on the program, you could have as few as 50 semester units at the time of application.
-
Complete all four CSU-approved general education requirements with a grade C- or higher.
-
(A1) Oral Communication/Speech
-
(A2) Written English Composition
-
(A3) Critical Thinking/Logic
-
(B4) Math/Quantitative Reasoning
-
-
Have an overall grade point average of 2.0 or better.
-
Students from Oregon enrolled in an SJSU Online program will be subject to Oregon State requirements for transferring course works. Specifically, a grade of “C” or better must be earned in all General Education courses.
-
Graduation Requirement: Complete all CSU Lower Division General Education requirements.
To view the program's courses, roadmap, and more, visit the Science, Technology, and Society, BA catalog page.
Valuable Learning Experiences
Our program emphasizes the practice and application of interdisciplinary thinking, empowering students to create innovative solutions to multifaceted challenges.
-
Critically examine and analyze the social, cultural, and political contexts in which new scientific knowledge and technologies are produced.
-
Identify and analyze the historical development of and global interconnections between different science and technology traditions.
-
Develop and communicate arguments about how different individuals and groups are affected by new scientific discoveries and technological innovations.
-
Conduct collaborative research that integrates quantitative and qualitative knowledge using interdisciplinary methods and theories.
Featured Courses
What can you do with a Science, Technology, and Society degree?
Our program prepares alumni to combine insights from various academic disciplines, specialized knowledge, and diverse methodologies to tackle complex issues that require a holistic perspective.
Science, technology, and society majors in the Bay Area earn an average annual salary of $66,000, according to Payscale.
Take a look at some of the top sectors, top companies, and examples of job titles of STS graduates.
Top Job Titles
- Biotech ethics consultant
- Educational specialist
- Product designer
- Responsible AI product manager
- Science policy analyst
- Sustainability coordinator
- Technology compliance officer
- Trust and safety specialist
Top Companies
- Apple
- Center for Responsible Tech
- Code for America
- Common Sense Media
- YouTube
Top Sectors
- Design
- Education
- Environmental studies
- Public policy
- Tech and biotech
Contact an Enrollment Counselor
Attend an Info Session
Join us virtually to learn more about how our online Science, Technology, and Society degree-completion program can transform your life!
Explore SJSU Online
Learn more about what we have to offer and why you should take the next steps with us.
Admissions
Learn how to apply, admission requirements, application cycles, and important dates.
Explore AdmissionsCosts and Financial Aid
What you need to know about tuition, fees, financial aid, and costs per unit.
See Cost and Aid