Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/online/online-learning/campus-resources.php
Title: Helpful Campus Resources
Type: HTML

Helpful Campus Resources
SJSU Online students have access to a wealth of helpful campus resources to help maximize their academic success and develop valuable skills to apply beyond graduation.
Featured Resources
Our SJSU Online liaisons within the SJSU MLK Jr. Library, SJSU Writing Center, and SJSU Career Center are dedicated to supporting your academic and professional success.
SJSU MLK Jr. Library
Access relevant resources and subject librarians for SJSU Online students.
SJSU Writing Center
Enhance your writing skills so you can communicate clearly in numerous settings.
SJSU Career Center
Prepare for your career advancement and the path to lifelong career success.
Discover Online Support and Success
Watch our interview with Dustin Wagner, '24 Anthropology, to learn how the SJSU Veterans Resource Center assisted with his transition back to school and how he was able to secure a job offer through the SJSU Career Center's Handshake platform.
Additional Resources
As an SJSU Online student, you will have access to an abundance of SJSU wraparound student support services to enhance your online experience and help you achieve academic success.
Accessible Education Center (AEC)
Adobe Creative Campus
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
Financial Aid and Scholarship Office (FASO)
Information Technology (IT)
One.SJSU Portal
Peer Connections
SJSU Cares
Veterans Resource Center
The Importance and Value of Accessible Education
For Jade Steele, ‘26 Information Science and Data Analytics, her SJSU Online experience has been instrumental in helping her pursue her long-term goal of becoming a digital accessibility specialist.
"The staff in the SJSU Accessible Education Center (AEC) have set me up with the accommodations that I need to be successful," said Jade. "They have also introduced me to other students in the SJSU Autism Support Group (ASG), which is providing me with a campus peer support group."
Learn more about student experience
Explore more about what your learning experience will be like at SJSU Online.
Academic Advising
Meet the advising team who will help you succeed in your academic journey.
Meet the AdvisorsClassmates and Community
Learn alongside diverse and motivated classmates from all walks of life.
Discover Our CommunityLet's get started. Request information today.
Fill out this form to connect with an enrollment counselor and learn more about how SJSU Online can help you complete your bachelor's degree.