Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/oscm/students/index.php
Title: Student Resources
Type: HTML

Student Resources
The faculty are delighted to have you as part of the School of Global Innovation & Leadership family. We look forward to working with you to help you reach your professional goals as you find your own voice among professors, peers, and those you will network with in your chosen field.
In the three concentrations we offer, we bring together the practical, theoretical, and professional components you will need to succeed in your future career.
We're here to support you in your quest for knowledge, understanding, and practical skills. We encourage you to connect with both your peers and professors. The connections forged here will continue to serve you well beyond your years at SJSU.
College is for many one of the more exciting times of life. One learns, makes friends, perhaps meets a partner, chooses a direction in terms of employment for the next few years and grows into adulthood. One becomes independent of parents and able to determine one's direction. With such freedom comes responsibility to oneself, loved ones and the community.
Students that are engaged with the San José State University community work to make a difference and improve the world they inherited from their parents.
Relationships and social networks are vital so many students join clubs and student organizations to have a sense of belonging. Below find a variety of resources.
Honors Programs
Student Associations
- AIESEC
- The International Business Association
- Operations and Supply Chain Management Association (O & SCMA)
Student Success
Study Abroad
We know that some SoM / SGIL students (particularly International Business majors) choose to study abroad for one or more semesters. Some of them have joined the honors program.
However, admissions to the Business Honors Program is based primarily on upper division B.S.B.A. courses completed at the SJSU College of Business, and the recommendation of an SoM or SGIL faculty member. You may need to carefully schedule the courses you take before you leave SJSU — including requesting a recommendation before you leave — or plan for one semester of eligible courses after you return from study abroad.