Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/parking/about-us/virtual-page.php
Title: Virtual Open House
Type: HTML

Virtual Open House
WELCOME TO PARKING SERVICES
In keeping pace with our innovative campus and our quickly evolving industry, SJSU Parking Services is embracing parts of the parking industry’s latest technologies to provide more efficient and customer focused service.
PURCHASING PERMITS
Today’s SJSU Parking Services is working to make the ability to purchase parking permits more accessible to customers through the use of Virtual Permits:
• Weekly/Monthly/Academic/Semester Permits can be purchased via Online Parking Services.
Watch Online Parking Services video demonstration.
• Daily/Hourly Permits can be purchased via SmartPhone – ParkMobile app. ParkMobile now offers multiple ways to pay for parking at SJSU, allowing you to
pay the way you want. You can download the ParkMobile app for iOS or Android devices,
you can pay via a ParkMobile web and checkout as guest user (no download or account
needed), you can text “PARK” to 77223, or you can use the Google Pay app. For FAQs, please visit the Parkmobile App FAQs.
Watch ParkMobile instruction video demonstration.
• Daily/Hourly Permits can also be purchased via our Pay Stations.
Watch Pay Station video demonstration.
PARKING GARAGE OCCUPANCY STATUS
Parking Services is working with our Campus IT to provide up to the minute information about the status of available parking in our garages.
Check Live Garage Occupancy Status (sjsuparkingstatus.sjsu.edu)
DOUBLEMAP
Parking Services partnered with DoubleMap to provide real time shuttle locations and estimated time of arrival (ETA) predictions.
Watch DoubleMap video demonstration.
The goal of the University is to have all students to one day wear their cap and gown. Until that day comes, SJSU Parking Services wants to provide assistance in getting you to your classes as quickly and as effortlessly as possible. For all parking information, please visit our website at www.sjsu.edu/parking[BROKEN LINK]. If you have any questions, please email us at parking@sjsu.edu.