Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/parking/index.php
Title: Parking Services
Type: HTML

2026 Winter and Spring Virtual Parking Permits Available Online Starting 12/15/2025!
News and Announcements
Current Parking Impacts
Shuttle service will resume on Thursday, January 22, 2026 (the first day of instruction
for 2026 Spring Semester).
Parking in main campus parking garages can be difficult and will add delays to your
day between 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Parking Services encourages parking at the South Campus
Parking Garage and taking the free and frequent shuttle to Main Campus. Another option
for students and employees is to use a VTA EcoPass loaded onto a Clipper Card for
public transportation throughout Santa Clara County. Find out more at go.sjsu.edu/transportation
As a reminder, there is no grace period for parking. All users of any university parking
garage must immediately have a valid parking permit or use the Parkmobile app to pay.
Parking Permit News
- The cost of employee campus parking permits for CSUEU, SUPA, UAPD, C99, E99, MPP and
Auxiliary employees will increase beginning July 1, 2025, due to approved employee
rate changes. The one-time increase will be $2 for the monthly employee permit rate,
with a similar percentage increase applied to all other employee permit types. For
additional information, visit Employee Parking Permit page.
- The cost of student campus parking permits increased on July 1, 2025. For additional
information, visit Commuter Student Parking Permit page or Housing Student Parking Permit page.
- The cost of visitor parking permits increased on July 1, 2025.
- Employees: get your annual permit through the Parking Online Services website.
- Parking permits for the South Campus Parking Garage are valid in general spaces of the main campus
parking garages only between 4:30 p.m. to 11:59 p.m. on Mondays through Thursdays,
and from 7 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. on Fridays through Sundays. However, no South Campus
Parking Garage permits are valid for overnight parking at Main Campus garages. Overnight
permits are only offered to students living in university housing (on-campus and off-campus
sites: International House and Spartan Village on the Paseo).
General News
- Pay via ParkMobile app (Zone 9033) or Permit Pay-Stations available on the first floor by the elevators.
- Parking citation fees are being adjusted to better support parking operations and your parking experience.
Fees were adjusted starting August 1, 2025. These changes reflect increased costs
associated with enforcement operations, state-mandated operations, state-mandated
surcharges, and continued support in campus transportation services. We appreciate
your cooperation as we continue improving campus mobility and safety.
General Information
About Us
We are here to help students, faculty, staff and visitors park in a safe and clean
environment. We maintain 7,500 parking spaces to help our campus function safely and
efficiently, and provide other crucial services for the community.
Parking Permits
We know that the SJSU community has diverse needs when it comes to parking. That's
why we offer a variety of parking permit types at various locations that can last
anywhere from a single day to a semester.
Parking Citations
Make sure you stay up to date on all our regulations, which are enforced 24-hours
a day, 7 days a week, every day, including holidays. It's also important to note that
if you don't follow our regulations, you could be subject to a citation or fine.
Parking Apps
All visitors can pay for parking through the Parkmobile app to extend parking or get
reminders.
How We Can Help
Have a question about where you can park, our parking permits, citations or anything
parking-related? We're here to help!