Source: https://catalog.sjsu.edu/preview_program.php?catoid=17&poid=13728
Title: About
Type: HTML

The concentration in International Business (IB) is designed to prepare students for today’s global business environment. IB as an interdisciplinary program builds capacity around key challenges and opportunities confronting all global businesses, including managing across borders, fostering innovation and entrepreneurship, and developing effective global strategies. In addition students may select an area of specialization, either a business functional area, an industry area, a geographic area of study, or language studies. Study abroad is required with one of three options: 1) a short-term faculty-led program; 2) a semester of study at a foreign university approved by CSU; or 3) an internship through AIESEC or other international internship program. The Director of the School of Global Innovation and Leadership can waive this requirement (e.g., international students need not study abroad). Study abroad courses that are regarded as equivalent can be substituted for IB program course requirements. This interdisciplinary approach provides a foundation for starting an international career. Graduates work in a variety of international areas and industries such as import/export, global operations, marketing, finance, hospitality and tourism, consulting, and project management, in both the private sector as well as governmental and non-governmental organizations.
Program Roadmaps
The 4-Year Roadmap is available online. Roadmaps should be used in consultation with the catalog and your advisor to identify additional requirements for completing the major (for example, course grade minimums).
Major-Specific Graduation Requirements
All courses in the Concentration Requirements for International Business must be completed with a grade of “C- or better”.The following Preparation for the Major and Required for the Major courses must be completed with a grade of “C or better”: ENGL 2 , MATH 70 , BUS1 20 , BUS2 90 .