Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/programs/speech-language-pathology-ms.php
Title: Master of Science in Speech Language Pathology
Type: HTML

Master of Science in Speech Language Pathology
Sign Up For Program Updates
* Required
Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyGuided by assessment and intervention within an evidence-based, ethical, and multicultural framework, the MS in Speech Language Pathology program equips students to serve the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community through a blend of rigorous coursework and clinical practica.
Immerse yourself in the multifaceted realm of speech, language and communication sciences through our comprehensive MS in Speech Language Pathology online program. With a focus on articulation and phonological disorders, fluency disorders like stuttering, augmentative and alternative communication methods, voice disorders, dysphagia, neurogenic communication disorders, as well as the social and cognitive aspects of communication, our program equips you with the expertise to make a profound impact.
Blend theoretical knowledge with clinical practice as you learn to assess, diagnose, and treat a diverse range of communication challenges, fostering effective communication and empowering individuals to thrive. Take academic courses online with a small cohort and have fieldwork and observation at site in a variety of settings near your location. Join SJSU Speech-Language Pathology Education and Applied Knowledge and Skills (SPEAKS) and become a catalyst for positive change in the lives of those you serve.
Program Snapshot
66
units
Fall and Spring
admission
Program Features
Unique experience
Students have clinical opportunities in a variety of settings and will take academic courses online with a small cohort.
Legacy
As one of the first Communicative Disorders and Sciences programs in California, SJSU has prepared students for careers in speech-language pathology and related fields for over 50 years.
Accreditation
- The Master of Science (M.S.) education program in speech-language pathology {residential and distance} at San José State University is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (2200 Research Boulevard, #310, Rockville, MD 20850, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700).
- The Master of Science in Speech-Language Pathology is also accredited by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing for Speech-Language Pathology Services Credential, and approved by California's Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology and Hearing Aid Dispensers Board.
Career Opportunities
- Speech language pathologists have the opportunity to work in schools, hospitals, private practices, nursing facilities.
- California employers post the highest number of related jobs among all states.
- According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, careers for Speech Language Pathologists are growing at a rate of 19%, and 13,200 job openings are expected to be generated each year over the next decade.
SJSU SPEAKS has been such an exciting experience! This program has put me in a position to learn from incredible professionals, delve into numerous clinical experiences, and develop the skills necessary to become a confident and competent speech-language pathologist. While the coursework is rigorous, it is very relevant to real-world practice, and the faculty do their best to increase the students’ success.
Anna Simoes
SJSU SPEAKS '27
Apply To The Program
Learn more about how to apply below.
- Admission Requirements
Applicants who completed an undergraduate or post-baccalaureate program in communication disorders and sciences may apply to this program. All program prerequisites need to be completed before the program start date.
- A Bachelor's degree with a 3.0 GPA or higher
- Official transcripts
- Personal essay, resume and letters of recommendation
- English language proficiency exam is required for applicants who come from a country where English is not the primary language and who do not possess a baccalaureate degree from a post-secondary institution where English is the principal language of instruction.
- GRE is not required
- Completion of San Jose State University’s Master of Science in Speech Language Pathology program meets the requirements in California to apply for Certification with the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association State Licensure through the Speech-Language Pathology & Audiology & and Hearing Dispensers Board, and the Speech Language Hearing Services credential. Additional testing, background clearance, and other requirements may also need to be met prior to applying for admission as applicable.
For more information visit MS-SLP program website.
- How to Apply
The program requires a two-step application process. Both applications must be completed by the deadline to be considered for admission.
- Step 1: Cal State Apply application
- Step 2: CSDCAS application
See How to Apply for application and intent to enroll details.
- Application Deadlines
Spring 2026
- Application opens on August 1, 2025*
- Application deadline: September 15, 2025*
Fall 2026
- Application opens on October 1, 2025*
- Application deadline: January 15, 2026*
For you to participate and receive credit from online classes at San Jose State University, your state of residence must have a reciprocity agreement in place with SJSU. This agreement provides online students with consumer protection. For a complete list of participating states and details on the regulation, please visit the state authorization site.
Events
View related events on the events page.
All Department EventsProgram Update
Sign up to receive program updates.
Related Programs
Social Work
Our two-year Master of Social Work (MSW) hybrid program offers online classes with an in-person internship component. Two years of continuous enrollment and completion of 60 units is required for this degree.
Higher Education Teaching
Grounded in social justice, equity, and inclusion, the Higher Education Teaching Certificate program provides graduate-level coursework and classroom experience to post-secondary educators or those with a Master’s Degree. Nine units to complete this hybrid program.
Pupil Personnel Services Credential
The Post-Master Pupil Personnel Services Credential (PPSC), designed for professionals with an MSW, qualifies you for certification with the state of California as a school social worker. This 10-credit program includes four units of externship done in a school setting.
Contact Information
Wendy Quach, Ph.D., CCC-SLP
Professor, Communicative Disorders & Sciences
speaks@sjsu.edu