Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/openuniversity
Title: San Jose State University: Open University
Type: HTML

Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyOpen University
Open University is a program where non-SJSU students can take SJSU courses for college credit without being formally accepted to a degree program. Whether you are a former SJSU student, a current student from another university, or a community member just looking to gain more knowledge, you can become an Open University student at SJSU.
Fall and Spring
Enroll in SJSU's regular semesters and select from thousands of class options and over 50 majors.
* Required
Academic Resources
Open University students without the benefit of an orientation need to be aware of resources and university policies. Here is an overview of the information necessary for a successful Open University semester at SJSU.
Program Benefits
Admissions
Formal admission not required
Fees
Save on campus fees
Credit
Earn college credit
Modality
Flexible class modality by terms
All sessions are Pacific Time, U.S.
Open University Spring Info Session
Join us for an information session about Open University for Spring 2026! With Open University, you can take SJSU courses without being formally enrolled in the university. This is also a great opportunity for SJSU DQ students to regain enrollment in your program.
For more information, you can SIGN UP to attend our info session on December 16 2025 at 2 pm to learn and ask questions.
Britanee Windom - Open University Student
Open University student Britanee Windom highlights the benefit of trying out individual courses at SJSU as a full time working professional.
Annette Gonzales Jones, Open University Student
“Open University was a great opportunity to take courses in preparation for applying to a graduate program."
Payment and Fees
CSU listed fees should be regarded as estimates that are subject to change upon approval by The Board of Trustees. To view fee information, select Fall/Spring, Winter, or Summer.