Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/programs
Title: SJSU Professional Programs - Program Finder
Type: HTML

Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyProgram Finder
Explore Your Options
Search Results
MBA for Professionals
This flexible MBA for Professionals program allows you to choose your pace while working on your career goals. By taking 2-3 courses per session, you can be done in 24 months, or 1-2 courses per session and be done in 36 months.
Biotechnology
Prepare to become a STEM leader in the biomedical field through advanced, hands-on training in biotechnology, medical product development management courses and MBA-level business courses. Complete this 14-course MBT program in five semesters, including one summer internship.
Artificial Intelligence
From algorithms to autonomous vehicles, smart appliances, and digital assistants, AI is everywhere. The MS in Artificial Intelligence leads to many opportunities for career advancement across industries. 33 units are needed to complete this degree.
Library and Information Science
The fully online Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS) prepares you for professional careers in the information profession. Graduating students rank the MLIS program's flexibility and online learning environment as its top two strengths. 43 units to complete this degree.
Applied Data Intelligence
Immerse deep into the realms of data analytics, data engineering, and cutting-edge generative AI models such as Large Language Models (LLM) with the Master of Science in Applied Data Intelligence (MSADI, formerly known as MSDA), crafted in collaboration with industry leaders from Silicon Valley. Over the span of two years, you can complete this comprehensive 30-unit program, paving the way for advanced careers in data-centric fields. Over 150 Silicon Valley companies have hired our students, reinforcing the program’s strong industry connections and career impact. Start your journey today and shape the future of data intelligence.