Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/resources/other-resources.php
Title: SJSU Professional Programs - Other Resources
Type: HTML

Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyOther Resources
Library
SJSU and the San Jose Public Library combined their resources and opened their doors to students and non-students. Gain access to books and a wealth of resources not offered with one library card before.
Visit Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Library and get your library card. Provide proof of address (CA ID) and your Special Session or Open University ID card to gain access to general library resources and services as well as student-only resources. If you have questions regarding term-specific SJSU student library privileges, please contact the circulation desk at (408) 808-2000 for more information.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Library
150 E. San Fernando St., San Jose
(408) 808-2000
Monday – Wednesday 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.
Thursday – Saturday 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Sunday 1:00 – 5:00 p.m
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Library
Career Center
The SJSU Career Center team is dedicated to providing all Spartans with the resources, guidance, and opportunities needed to successfully prepare for their futures. Check out the Career Center website for available services and events for students.
Sport Club Fitness Center
Special Session and Open University students may purchase a day use pass or membership at a discount rate for the Sport Club Fitness Center is located in the San José State Event Center.
SmartPass Clipper Card
As a Special Session and Open University student, you can pay the Associated Students fee and enjoy unlimited rides on all VTA Buses and Light Rail. To find out more about the benefits of SmartPass Clipper Card and how to obtain one, please visit the Associated Students website.