Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/resources/academic.php
Title: SJSU Professional Programs - Academic Information
Type: HTML

Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyAcademic Information
Registration Basic
See information on Enrollment appointment, How to Add classes, How to Drop Classes, etc, from Office of the Registrar.
Swapping a Class
Swapping a Class FAQs
Adding a Course afer the Deadline
Deadline to add the course on your MySJSU: 14 calendar days from the first day of
your class.
You can add a course provided you meet the prerequisite requirements and the instructor
signs your registration form. Complete a "Late Enrollment" form (DocuSign) in the
form section.
Late enrollment requires instructor, chair or program director and Associate Dean approval. Students indicate the name and email of the approvers in the spaces listed to route the form correctly. Instructions to fill out the form are on the first page.
If classes are dropped due to non-payment after the deadline to drop, and you wish to re-enroll, all the courses should be added back.
Dropping a Course after the Deadline
Deadline to add the course on your MySJSU: 26 calendar days from the first day of your class. Note that this is not the refund deadline.
After the deadline, you will complete the drop process by filing a Petition for course Drop or Withdrwal in the form section. All approval signatures/permissions are required. Leaving a course without authorization will result in a Withdrawal Unauthorized (WU) which is equivalent to an "F" grade.
Accessing Your Records
Visit http://one.sjsu.edu to access your records online after you register. If you cannot remember your user ID, please email Information Technology Services (ITS) at ithelpdesk@sjsu.edu .
If you cannot remember your password, click on SJSUOne Set/Reset Password.
Provide at least two of the following items for verification:
-
SJSU Student ID
-
Date of birth
-
Mailing address
Official Transcript
To obtain an official transcript, visit the Transcript website for more information.
User ID & Password
For help accessing your account, visit the IT Services webpage.
Login for the First Time.
Reset Password.
Password Help.
SJSU Student ID
Students who attend classes with face to face instruction mode will need a Tower Card
to access on-campus buildings. Please follow these instructions:
- Submit a photo online at https://myid.sjsu.edu/. Once you submit your photo, it should be available for printing within 48 hours of receiving your approval email.
- Please come to the Tower Card Window in the Student Services Center, 9th and San Fernando,
to get your Tower Card. We're open Mon - Fri from 8:00am - 5:00pm. Join the Q-Less Queue when you get here.
Note that you must be authenticated to MySJSU to access the links above.
GE Requirements
Visit the SJSU Catalog to learn more about GE Requirements.
Placement examinations
Placement examinations or proof of qualifications may be required for certain Open University or Special Session classes. For more information visit the Testing Office.