Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/professional/resources/fee.php
Title: SJSU Professional Programs Fees and Payment
Type: HTML

Announcement
New Program - MS in Speech-Language Pathology
San José State University now offers an online MS in Speech-Language Pathology. Through rigorous coursework and clinical practicum, students are equipped to meet the needs of our culturally and linguistically diverse community. Join us to make a meaningful impact!
MS in Speech-Language PathologyFees & Payment
Tuition Fee by Program
TuitionPayment Due Dates
Regardless of when the classes start and end, fees are due on the listed date below for each term.
Spring 2026:
Register from 1/27: fee due in 3 days
Fall 2025:
Anyone who registers until 8/23: due on 8/27
Register from 8/24: fee due in 3 days
Summer 2025:
Anyone who registers until 6/6: due on 6/9
Register from 6/7: fee due in 3 days
Students are responsible for keeping track of payment dates. The Bursar’s Office does
not mail bills. Conveniently, payment due dates are posted in the finances section
of your MySJSU account immediately after you register for classes. To confirm your payment due date,
log into your MySJSU to view your student center portal. Scroll down to the Finances section and click on View Due Date. For step-by-step instructions, see How to View Payment Due Dates [pdf].
For any reason that you choose not to attend classes, it is your responsibility to drop all classes prior to the deadline in order not to owe a debt to SJSU. Failure to attend may not cause the classes to be dropped from your account automatically. All refund rules apply.
Failure to pay will result in a past due hold on the account that blocks access to diploma's and registration until the balance is paid in full.
Installment Payment Plan
Special Session students who wish to request a payment plan may contact the Bursar's Office via email at student-finance-specialists@sjsu.edu or by phone at 408-924-1601 and your inquiry will be directed to an Account Specialist.
Fee Deferral
What is a Tuition Fee Deferral?
Tuition Fee Deferrals are placed by the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office on eligible student's accounts. A Registration Fee Deferral protects course enrollment, delaying the required payment of registration fees until the financial aid application process is completed.
Refunds
If you reside outside of the State of California, please click the following link to our online catalog in order to review your respective state's disclosure and policies.
Since class start date varies within a semester, refund is calculated as followed:
*Day 1 is the 1st day of instruction of the class. The calculation includes weekends and holidays.
For classes that run 8+ weeks:
Class officially dropped by the 5th calendar day: 100% refund
On the 6th day: 75% refund
On the 7th day: 50% refund
On the 8th day: 25% refund
Starting the 9th day: 0% refund
For other dates, such as shorter than 8 week classes and Nursing Certificate Program:
Calculate number of day in from the start of instruction date to the end date
Calculate the 10% marker
Drop class before start date: 100% refund
Drop during start to 10% marker: 75%
Drop after 10% marker: 0%
Students are responsible for dropping their class officially. When students drop a class passing the deadline to drop, their account will show class status as "Enrolled" with a "W" grade. Failure to attend may not cause students to be dropped from a class automatically. Failure to drop a course officially generates a failing grade of “F” or Withdrawal Unauthorized (WU) and fees will be charged to the student's account.
Sign up for Direct Deposit (eRefund) to avoid the processing fee. Refunds are not processed during the add/drop period.
For questions regarding refunds, please contact Professional and Continuing Education (PaCE) at pace@sjsu.edu.
Student Record Holds
San José State University has authority to withhold registration privileges for any student with an outstanding balance due on their account. If a Bursar hold has been placed on your records, your registration will not be processed. To resolve the debt, please call the Bursar's Office at 408-924-1601.
Returned Checks and Declined Credit Cards
Refer to returned checks from the Bursar's Office website.
Fee Disclaimer
The CSU makes every effort to keep student costs to a minimum. Fees listed in published schedules or student accounts may need to be increased when public funding is inadequate. Therefore, CSU must reserve the right, even after initial fee payments are made, to increase or modify any listed fees, without notice, until the date when instruction for a particular semester or quarter has begun. All CSU listed fees should be regarded as estimates that are subject to change upon approval by The Board of Trustees.
FERPA and Student Privacy
FERPA
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974 helps protect the privacy
of student records. The Act provides for the right to inspect and review educational
records, to seek to amend those records, and to limit disclosure of information from
the records. The Act applies to all institutions that are the recipients of federal
funding.
Students who are currently enrolled or formerly enrolled, regardless of their age or parental dependency status, are protected. FERPA does not apply to deceased students or persons who have applied, but have not attended the university.
Authorization to Release Information
Students may give consent for their designated persons (parents or legal guardians)
to access their student financial account. Review the guide on how to provide Authorization to Release Information [pdf] and allow the Bursar's Office to disclose student record information as prescribed
by FERPA.
For more detailed information about FERPA and the Solomon Amendment, visit the Office of the Registrar.