Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/provost/faculty-success/sjsu-institutional_excellence-statement.php
Title: Institutional Excellence Statement
Type: HTML

Institutional Excellence Statement
SJSU Institutional Excellence Statement Guidelines for Applicants to Faculty Positions
As outlined in our Institutional Excellence Framework, San José State University aspires to produce curricular and co-curricular experiences in a holistic learning environment that facilitates individual and collective transformation. Our institution seeks to foster meaningful connections among faculty, staff, students, alumni, and the broader communities whom we serve. Committed to cultural humility and lifelong learning, we center the student experience while honoring the impact of past and future generations. We cultivate inclusive, empowering spaces for mutual learning, skill-building, and knowledge exchange. Through research, scholarship, and service, we advance equity and Institutional excellence, ensuring all community members contribute to transformational education.
SJSU invites all applicants for faculty positions to consider submitting an Institutional Excellence Statement [or embedding in your cover letter], as we are interested in hearing about the lived and professional experiences you will contribute to our campus community, particularly as it relates to the work you will do with our students. As we seek to create a campus climate that welcomes all, we see this statement as a tool that can help you explain the value you might add to this endeavor. Statements might discuss the following:
Track Record in Student Success: Tell us about activities you have been involved in or roles you have played that may have removed barriers or created environments that facilitated the success of the students we educate here at SJSU. For example, you may have prior teaching experience, research practices, and service engagements to a campus or broader community that align with the University mission and values. On a similar note, you may have had demonstrated success in working with first-generation college students, underrepresented groups, and/or a diverse student body.
Campus Engagement Plans: Coming into a new institution is an excellent opportunity to reflect on your professional goals and values. We invite you to share your thoughts on how your teaching, research, and/or service plans in the coming years might contribute to one or more elements of SJSU’s strategic plan, Transformation 2030, or with the work of any of the student resource centers on campus.
We value the experiences and perspectives of our applicants and believe that your unique contributions will enrich our academic community. Join us at San Jose State University and become a part of our commitment to student success. We look forward to reviewing your application.