Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/provost/student-success/index.php
Title: Office of the Provost
Type: HTML

Student Success Strategic Initiatives
Advising
Undergraduate Advising and Success connects students with dedicated support to help them make informed academic and
career decisions. By offering proactive guidance and resources, we empower students
to stay on track and achieve their educational goals.
Student Success Equity Intensive (SSEI)
SJSU is one of 18 selected equity-driven institutions in a collaborative transformation
journey. This transformational experience, funded by the Gates Foundation, is specifically
for institutions committed to student success and closing equity gaps for Black, Latinx,
Indigenous, and low-income students.
More information about AASCU institutions selected to join the national initiative
is accessible here.
Spartan Phalanx
The Spartan Phalanx initiative provides holistic support to help retain students on
academic probation. It engages students through both group and one-on-one coaching,
equipping them with the skills needed for academic success while also encouraging
their participation in the broader Phalanx program.
Strategic Enrollment Management
Admission to Graduation Project
The Admission to Graduation Project (A to G Project) was formed in the Fall of 2014 to identify and implement enhancements
to technical and business processes that would facilitate graduation for our students
and contribute to meeting SJSU's goals.
Career Preparation and Support
The Career Center leads campus efforts to prepare students for the transition to life after college
and the path to lifelong career success. They have resources to help you explore majors and careers, engage with employers, and launch a successful
career!
ASSSET
The Academic Strategic Space, Scheduling, and Enrollment Team (ASSSET) provide leadership and oversight of academic space, scheduling, and enrollment,
three areas critical to student success at San José State University.
Student Equity, Belonging and Wellness
Mental Health Programs
San José State University offers comprehensive student mental health programs, providing counseling, wellness resources, and crisis support to promote student
well-being and success.
Belonging
SJSU is committed to creating a campus community where every student feels valued
and supported. This commitment to belonging directly contributes to students' ability
to persist and achieve their goals.
Equity
The university recognizes that equity is fundamental to creating a thriving academic
community. SJSU is committed to fostering an environment where all students feel valued,
supported, and empowered to succeed.
Academic College Strategic Success Programs
DFW
Our academic success initiatives target DFW (grades of D, F, or Withdrawal) rates by providing proactive support, tutoring, and resources to help students overcome
challenges. By improving course completion and retention, we foster a stronger path
to graduation and long-term success.
Centralized Faculty Professional Development
Our centralized faculty professional development programs provide educators with collaborative learning opportunities, best practices,
and cutting-edge teaching tools. By fostering instructional excellence, we empower
faculty to drive student achievement and institutional success.
Learning Communities
Student learning communities create supportive peer networks that enhance academic success and engagement. At
the same time, faculty learning communities offer a collaborative space for educators to explore innovative teaching strategies
and enhance student learning outcomes.