Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/registrar/academic-records/reinstatement.php
Title: Reinstatement (Returning from Disqualification)
Type: HTML

Reinstatement (Returning from Disqualification)
Reinstatement is a process that allows a student who was previously academically dismissed to resume taking courses at San Jose State. This reinstatement process will allow students to return as regular students and be able to continue their studies toward degree completion.
- Undergraduate Students: follow the steps on the Reinstatement & Readmission page.
- Graduate Students: follow the steps on the Graduate Petition for Reinstatement page.
Required Signatures
All petitions require the signatures from the three people below:
- Department Chair of your Intended Major
- Associate Dean from the College
- Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies
The only exception is the first reinstatement category (Raised GPA to 2.0 or higher), which only requires the first two signatures.
Readmission is a separate process from reinstatement
The readmission process allows you to become a regular matriculated student. You
must reapply by following the steps on Former Student page. You need to meet all regular admissions eligibility criteria, pay appropriate fees,
and follow the regular term application deadlines. To meet filing deadlines, you
may need to start the readmission process before reinstatement is complete. Contact
the Admissions Office for more details.
Reinstatement Category Snapshot
SJSU CUM GPA 2.0 or Better
This category is for students who have attended SJSU through Open University and brought
their SJSU cumulative GPA up to 2.0 or better. Raising their GPA does not guarantee
approval of the student’s request for reinstatement. Some departments place restrictions
on reinstatement to their major degree programs. Students should consult their major
advisor(s) as early as possible.
Extenuating Circumstances
Reinstatement in this category will only be granted for serious and compelling reasons
that were clearly beyond a student’s control. Situations in this category include,
but are not limited to: military service, family hardship, natural disasters, and
severe medical issues.
Petitioned Grade Change
This category is reserved for grade changes following the university policy [pdf] for grade appeals and grade changes. Students should consult their advisor(s) for
details.
Special Consideration
This category is reserved for students whose petitions cannot be accommodated within
the categories listed above. Typically, such students have spent substantial time
away from SJSU since their disqualification and feel that their life experiences have
prepared them for a successful return to school.
Students in good academic standing
If you have not enrolled for two consecutive spring and fall semesters, you can return by reapplying. Follow the steps on the Former Student page to get started.
Please note that missing either summer or winter terms does not factor into the two consecutive semesters.