Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/registrar/academic-records/transfer-credit.php
Title: Transferring Credits from Other Institutions to SJSU
Type: HTML

Transferring Credits from Other Institutions to SJSU
San José State University has transfer course agreements with over 130 California public colleges and universities. Not all courses transfer automatically. Please view the Articulation Page for the most current details about transfer credits.
Transfer Credit & Credit for Prior Learning (CPL)
San José State University (SJSU) evaluates transfer and prior learning credit with care to protect academic integrity and student progress. Please note:
- Credits from non–regionally accredited institutions are evaluated for university elective credit only.
-
- To use such coursework toward major or minor requirements, students must obtain departmental review and approval through the Articulation Office.
-
- Credit for Prior Learning (CPL): In accordance with University Policy S24-1 [pdf], Section 5, SJSU may award course credit for college-level learning acquired outside of traditional higher education when it is appropriate to a student’s academic objectives.
-
- CPL determinations are made by the department chair or program director–appointed subject matter expert(s) and are based on whether the learning meets the corresponding SJSU course’s learning outcomes.
-
- NCCRS/ACE recommendations are advisory, not guarantees. While SJSU considers National College Credit Recommendation Service (NCCRS) and American Council on Education (ACE) credit recommendations, these do not, by themselves, confer credit or ensure applicability to degree requirements. The relevant academic department has final authority on all credit awards and how (or whether) they apply to a student’s program.
- No promise of credit: Publication of this information does not constitute a promise or guarantee of credit. Final credit awards and applicability are determined after individual review.
Policies and procedures may change. Students are responsible for consulting their advisor, the Articulation Office, and the appropriate academic department for the most current guidance.
Submit Official Transcripts to SJSU
Undergraduate Continuing Students who have not applied for graduation
Submit official transcripts via one of the following three methods:
1) Electronic transcripts (Preferred method) should be sent to etranscript@sjsu.edu directly from your school(s).
2) Send by mail.
San Jose State University
Undergraduate Admissions
One Washington Square
San José, CA 95192-0016
3) Drop the sealed envelope in the overnight drop box by the Student Services Center(SSC)'s entrance. Put attention to the Undergraduate Admissions office.
Checking your transfer credit status:
You will receive a confirmation email once the official transcript is received. The
notification will include the approximate time when your transfer credit will appear
on your transfer credit report on MySJSU(see below). Depending on the time of the
year, it usually takes at least 10 business days to process.
Undergraduate Continuing Students who have applied for graduation
Submit official transcripts via one of the following three methods:
1) Electronic transcripts (Preferred method) should be sent to etranscript@sjsu.edu directly from your school(s).
2) Send by mail.
San Jose State University
Office of the Registrar
One Washington Square
San José, CA 95192-0009
3) Drop the sealed envelope in the overnight drop box by the Student Services Center (SSC)'s entrance. Put “Attention Office of the Registrar”.
Inform your evaluator after you send your transcripts. Note that you may not transfer more than 70 units from community colleges.
Graduate students
Please contact GAPE at graduate@sjsu.edu
Checking Your Transfer Credits status
Locate your transfer credit status from your MySJSU portal.
-
- Student Center Tab
- Transfer Credit Tab