Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/research/research-development/funding-opportunities/general-funding/index.php
Title: General Funding
Type: HTML

General Funding
Funding a specific research, scholarship, and creative activity (RSCA) project or line of work, and securing continuous RSCA funding throughout your career requires strategic planning, consistent monitoring for opportunities, and careful targeting of the right funding opportunities. With this in mind, Research Development manages all aspects of finding funding.
The following grant databases can assist you on your quest for external state/federal funding.
California Grants Portal
Grants.ca.gov is managed and hosted by the California State Library. It provides a centralized location to find state grant opportunities. All state grantmakers are required to post award data for all grants.
California Humanities
California Humanities offers grants in four categories: documentary media, with the California Documentary Project; public humanities events, with Humanities for All; and public library engagement, with the Library Innovation Lab.
FederalGrants.com
The Federal Grant search engine allows access to the requirements, deadlines, and details of over 60,000 past and current grants from 500+ different federal agencies.
Federal Register
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and require the recipient to comply with the terms of the grant and report on the outcome of the project or program.
Grants.gov
Grants.gov is a central storehouse for information on over 1,000 grant programs and provides access to approximately $500 billion in annual awards. All funding announcements for all federal agencies (e.g., National Education Association, National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Education, etc.) are stored this comprehensive database. It’s completely free to use.
Hanover Research
Hanover Research offers free curated funding opportunity lists. Sign up for this notification service on the Hanover Research website.
Institute of Education Sciences
Institute of Education Sciences (IES) provides email notification of any new funding opportunities from the IES. Click on the General IES News and Information dropdown (select the + sign) and check the box of the funding alerts only. This will ensure that you will receive only funding emails from the IES.
Limited Submissions
The Limited Submission process is an automated and fully managed by the Office of Research using the SJSU InfoReady portal. The limited submissions portal is where to access and complete the required NOI/LOI by clicking the relevant active link.
Alerts of new and currently open limited submissions to the campus community are communicated via a Top-of-the-Month Newletter to all faculty from the Interim Associate Vice President for Research, and a Mid-Month Newsletter sent to deans, associate deans for research (ADRs), and all faculty. Additionally, the Office of Research will send just-in-time emails for key late-breaking opportunities.