Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/research/about/rsca-initiatives/past-rsca-in-5.php
Title: Past RSCA in 5 Talks
Type: HTML

Past RSCA in 5 Talks
Our past RSCA in 5 Talks can be found archived on this page. Please note that not all talks are posted online due to the sensitivity of ongoing research.
To attend a RSCA in 5 talk, view our upcoming talks page.
2025
March 20, 2025 - Transformations and Rites of Passage
This seminar will delve into the psychological, physical, social, and cultural dimensions of "transformation" across various disciplines. This can include stages of psychological development and the role of trauma and healing in shaping individual identity, how humans' sense of cause and effect drives the interpretation of life changes, the impact of rites of passage, how they transmit cultural values, and how literature and the arts depict narratives of transformative experiences, personal growth, and social change.
October 2, 2025 - Faculty and Student Research Collaborations
A selected panel of distinguished faculty and students discuss their work in their respective research areas.
2024
May 10, 2024 - CHIPS and Science Act
The CHIPS and Science Act, signed into law in 2022, aims to catalyze domestic semiconductor research and manufacturing. Please join SJSU faculty as they discuss how their research intersects with this historic act and potential implications for Silicon Valley, its economy, and the development of an informed citizenry and highly skilled workforce.
March 1, 2024 - Social Responsibility
Social and racial justice, inclusion, and responsibility to the community are core values at San José State University and are reflected in ongoing research, scholarship, and creative activity. Join SJSU faculty as they discuss their projects that demonstrate the diversity of disciplinary approaches to achieving social good.
October 4, 2024 - AI in Education
As AI’s prevalence increases daily, SJSU faculty seek to incorporate it into the classroom in ethical, useful ways. Please join the Office of Research, Center for Faculty Excellence and Teaching Innovation (CFETI), and a selected panel of distinguished faculty as they discuss the implications of AI in the classroom and on SJSU students.
November 14, 2024 - Community-Engaged Research and Learning
SJSU and the surrounding community have always had strong ties through engagement, service, and equity activities. SJSU learns from and serves the community through activities that enrich SJSU students' experiential opportunities. Join the discussion on SJSU’s impact on the local and global community.
2023
March 3, 2023 - Semiconductors and Quantum Technologies
Design and fabrication of semiconductors and semiconductor devices enable the systems and products we use to work, travel, communicate and entertain, harness energy, treat illness, and make new scientific discoveries. Talks addressed semiconductor production and supply, quantum technologies and their implications for our economy, and the development of a diverse science and engineering workforce.
April 28, 2023 - Human Factors/Human Tech Interaction
Talks on the topic of Human Factors from research-active faculty members that are interdisciplinary, or from any angle that investigates human interactions with technology and systems used by humans.
October 13, 2023 - Artificial Intelligence and Ethics
Artificial intelligence (AI) is increasingly integrated into everyday life, from digital voice assistants to autonomous vehicles and education, without sufficient discussions of their ethical implications. Join SJSU faculty as they explore the intersections of AI's potential technological benefits and privacy, bias, transparency, and accountability.
December 1, 2023 - Climate Science and Adaptations
Extreme weather events, intensified by climate change, underscore the need for adaptation strategies. From resilient infrastructure to community preparedness plans, adapting to these events is critical to minimizing social, economic, and environmental impacts. Join SJSU faculty as they discuss climate science, adaptation activities, and general challenges.
2022
March 3, 2022 - Sustainable Futures and Earth Systems Science
Ten faculty gave short lectures on sustainability from an earth system perspective. Topics included discussions surrounding the climate; marine, fire, ecosystem science; human rights; and environmental justice.
May 6, 2022 - Ethnic Studies Education: New educational models for equity, diversity and inclusion
Speakers explored the subject matter via the lens of cultural experience, framing new social understandings of how students learn and how we teach.
October 14, 2022 - Big Data and Data Science
Data and data science are huge topics that surround us every day. Speakers at this event explored the concept of Big Data and how it related to a variety of topics from wildfires to data privacy.
December 2, 2022 - Community Engagement
Community-engaged RSCA is at the heart of what SJSU does: finding new ways to support our communities and pave the way forward. Our faculty demonstrated their prowess in eleven short talks ranging from microaggressions to limb-assisting devices in the form of robots.
2021
March 5, 2021 - AI, Machine Learning and Ethics
Our first faculty talk of 2021 centered around AI, machine learning, and the ethics surrounding it. It spanned the gamut from technical implementation to artistic interpretations and discussion of social and ethical implications of artificial intelligence and Machine learning.
September 3, 2021 - Health Equity and Health Tech
When it comes to the human experience, what is not about health? Despite the rapid evolution of pharmaceutical sciences, surgery systems, alternative therapies, health technology, and integrative medicine, there remain massive gaps in health outcomes across communities large and small. Our RSCA in 5 talk discussed relevant research and breakthroughs faculty had from their work.
December 3, 2021 - Black Scholars Matter
RSCA in Five: Black Scholars Matter highlighted the breadth and excellence of the scholarly activities of Black/African American faculty at SJSU, fostered discussion, and encouraged RSCA collaborations across disciplines.
2020
August 5, 2020 - Covid-19 Related Research
This, event, held over Zoom, featured faculty from across campus presenting their current COVID-19-related research. As there were 23 presentations, two breakout rooms were utilized. You may view the main recording and the talks on Zoom using the links below.
October 2, 2020 - Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
This talk featured 11 presentations discussing DEI and the research SJSU faculty has conducted to explore this important topic.
November 6, 2020 - Health & Biomedical Research
Research Development featured 22 talks spread over two breakout rooms exploring Health and Biomedical Research.