Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/research/research-development/training/index.php
Title: Faculty Workshops and Training
Type: HTML

Faculty Workshops and Training
In addition to its own funding opportunities, the Office of Research offers a comprehensive online guide to navigate external funding, plus year-round workshops and dedicated help from Research Development Specialists.
▸ Guide to Awards
▸ Funding Workshops
▸ Student Mentorship
▸ New and aspiring PIs, get started here!
Guide to Awards
SJSU Guide to Awards: Concept to Dissemination is a Canvas course supporting you through all stages of applying for and managing external grants and fellowships through SJSU and SJSU Research Foundation.
Find samples, tools, instructions, and contact info for more help on every page. Topics covered:
- All stages of the funding process, from getting started and proposal prep to award management and research dissemination
- Working with Research Foundation
- Spending Award Funds
- Subawards
- Resubmission
.... and more! Enroll Now
| Top of Page ↑ |
Funding Workshops
PI Preparation Series
This series contains two parts and repeats every semester. Come to either or both Zoom events, any semester.
1. PI Preparation Series: Planning and Submitting a Proposal
Planning for, writing, and submitting grant and fellowship applications. This workshop details proposal support offered by Research Development and Office of Sponsored Projects, how to access them, and who does what.
2. PI Preparation Series: Managing an Award
Friday, March 27, 2026, 12-1:30 p.m., via Zoom | RSVP
How to navigate the process after an award is received: contracts and subawards, spending, staffing, budget, reports, closing out, and more.
For future-semester workshop dates, watch your email inbox for the monthly newsletter from the Associate Vice President for Research. The subject line reads, "Office of Research RSCA News and Funding Opportunities." If you are not receiving this, email funding-information@sjsu.edu.
Cayuse SP
For Research Foundation Proposal Submissions
To gain improved functionality, Cayuse SP is being implemented now. This will expand the platform's capabilities to include the management of awards, streamlining processes and facilitating greater transparency.
| Top of Page ↑ |
Mentoring Students
In addition to these workshops and opportunities, check out the Guide to Awards for more on mentorship through research.
Advancing Inclusive Mentoring (AIM)
Developed at CSU Long Beach under the NIH-funded Building Infrastructure Leading to Diversity (BUILD) Initiative, this 6-part workshop series supports faculty in their mentoring activities.
Look for session offerings in future newsletters.
Student RSCA Fellowship
Work with an advisee in the Student RSCA Fellowship (SRF) program from the Office of Research. Mentors receive a half-day workshop, three monthly meetings with grant recipients, and honorarium. Students must apply with faculty approval by February for the following year. Program culminates with a presentation at Celebration of Research. More info at funding-information@sjsu.edu.
Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program
UROP, from ODEI, supports faculty and students to engage in research and mentorship.
Faculty submit a project to apply and receive orientation, development funds, and
research support.
More help:
🌐 CFETI: Center for Faculty Excellence and Teaching Innovation
🌐 Diversity Training and Consulting via Office of the President
| Top of Page ↑ |
New and Aspiring PIs, Start Here!
Welcome to your RSCA journey. Here's how to get started.
1. Enroll in and explore the Guide to Awards
2. Sign up for the workshop PI Preparation Series: Planning and Submitting
How to navigate the process after an award is received: contracts and subawards, spending, staffing, budget, reports, closing out, and more.
This workshop is held once per semester. Watch your email inbox for offerings announced
in the monthly newsletter from the Associate Vice President for Research. The subject
line reads, "Strategic Grants Funding Opportunities Newsletter". If you are not receiving
it, email funding-information@sjsu.edu.
3. Consider applying for University Grants Academy:
This semester-long course offers full support, mentorship, and community through the process of writing a significant external grant proposal to fund your RSCA enterprise. Buyout and fellowship funding included. More information on the UGA website.
| Top of Page ↑ |