Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/science/index.php
Title: College of Science
Type: HTML

Welcome to the College of Science at SJSU where we create knowledge and expand opportunity!
News, events and awards
College of Science 21st Student Research Day
SJSU College of Science's 21st Student Research Day highlights the incredible original research that our students engage in with faculty mentors. Join us for the event on Friday, April 21st from 10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. outside of Duncan Hall (facing the lawn).
Please mark your calendar to join us on Friday, May 1st at 3PM in YUH 124 for our annual Grilione seminar presented by Dr. Holly A. Ingraham.
Dr. Clements talks about the Palisades fire on KCAL
Dr. Craig Clements, Professor and Chair of Meteorology and Climate Science and Director of the Wildfire Interdisciplinary Research Center, comments on how the Palisades fire may have surfaced.
SJSU corpse flower second blooming
Lars Rosengreen, SJSU Greenhouse Manager, correctly estimated the second blooming of the corpse flower named "Terry Titan". Please click the link above for more info on Terry and the recorded livestream of its bloom!
Michelle & Cliff Chen first renaming of ISB
Michelle Mostajo Chen, Master in Biotechnology ‘07, and her husband support the MBT program. In honor of her and her parents, ISB 420 is renamed "Nicanor E. and Norma L. Mostajo Bio Equipment Suite."
Who is Edgar McGregor? '24 Climate Science alumnus and 'Hero'
Edgar McGregor is the leader of the "Altadena Weather And Climate" Facebook group, which he used to post warnings about the incoming wildfires and led to saving hundreds of lives.
Cutting-edge faculty-student research
Learn how Dr. Maya deVries took a new discipline and how her abalone research is cultivating California's next generation of aquaculture workers. Please click the link above for the full story.
Dr. Eggers Retires with a Bang
Dr. Daryl Eggers retired in 2023, but some of his most important research findings have recently been published in 3 significant manuscripts.
Spartan inventors are hard at work in various fields, securing patents for potentially revolutionary ideas for the future of science, engineering, medicine and more.
SJSU students contribute to new element breakthrough
Dr. Nick Esker and his students help the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory discover element 116.
Liam Stanton Helps Put the Keys in the Fusion Ignition
Dr. Liam Stanton's simulation models were used to design a breakthrough research in fusion energy.
Dr. Minghui Diao explains the importance in researching clouds and aerosols in order to predict the effects of climate change.
Transformative experiential learning
Physics 2A Proves That Learning Can Be Fun
Dr. Cassandra Paul reforms Physics 2A with active learning. Students collaborate during class which leads to students preforming better overall.
Experiential learning in the College of Sciences
See how College of Science students experience hands-on learning in these four highlighted stories.
Led by Dr. Andro Rios, students in the ASPIRE program study in NASA research labs to help unlock the secrets of exobiology and astrobiology.
Dr. Singmaster Helps Students RISE
As Director of the RISE program for 17 years, Dr. Karen Singmaster has helped over 100 underrepresented students graduate and pursue graduate school and biomedical research careers.
SJSU Hosts Cybersecurity Camp for Local High School Students
SJSU faculty, including our college's own, Dr. Melody Moh, helped organize this as part of their $1 million funding to improve the cybersecurity workforce.
SJSU students take in the partial solar eclipse
NBC Bay Area reports Dr. Aaron Romanowsky provided telescopes to students and passersby to get the best view of the partial solar eclipse.