Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/sjsulovessj
Title: SJSU Loves SJ: Connecting Our Communities
Type: HTML

Experience the Heart of Silicon Valley
SJSU Loves SJ is a showcase of the strong, collaborative relationship between San José State University and the city of San José. As the capital of Silicon Valley—a vibrant city at the center of innovation, creativity and technology—there is so much to love and celebrate about this place we call home. With SJSU located in the heart of the city, the SJSU Loves SJ initiative, in collaboration with Visit San José, the Downtown Association, Japantown Business Association, and San José City Hall, further connects and and integrates students, faculty and staff with the culture of the thriving local community.
Loading video content...
What happens in Silicon Valley changes the world — and SJSU is the university changing Silicon Valley. Discover the many ways Spartans are impacting the campus, the city of San José and beyond.
San José State University is a fixture in the local community because of the robust and storied partnerships that help craft the vibrancy that defines life in Silicon Valley. Learn more about how SJSU's involvement can be found all over the region.
The start of every semester begins with Weeks of Welcome (WOW) programs and events designed to provide support for students as they transition into SJSU and connect with the Spartan and San José community.
Get to know your new home and explore all the great things San José has to offer with our interactive Google Map. Students will be able to explore the best places to grab coffee, catch a show, taste delicious food, discover which places have student discounts and experience local landmarks.
Explore what education in the heart of Silicon Valley can mean for you or your student. Find out how to get here, where to stay, what to do and how to make the most of your visit.
San José Local Alumni Stories
Community Relations
Community and Government Relations
Learn about how SJSU's Community and Government Relations team works to maintain collaborative relationships at all levels of government.