Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/sjsulovessj/408/index.php
Title: Welcome to the 408
Type: HTML

Welcome to the 408
SJSU Loves SJ: Welcome to the 408 is a celebration connecting San José State students to the heart of the city we call home. From August 20 to September 20, discover free and discounted events hosted by local businesses, artists, and community partners across downtown San José. Whether you're new to campus or a returning Spartan, Welcome to the 408 is your invitation to explore the culture, food, and creativity that make San José special.
Spartan Discounts is your passport to exploring San José with your student ID! Show your Tower Card at participating local businesses and unlock exclusive deals just for SJSU students. Whether you're grabbing coffee, shopping local, or planning a night out, these discounts are our community’s way of saying: Welcome to the 408!
| Event/Location | Details |
|---|---|
| The Tech Interactive |
All September Students enjoy discounted admission to The Tech Interactive’s gallery and exhibits throughout September! |
| The Sharks |
September to April Enjoy a night out with the San Jose Sharks. Be the first to know and never miss your chance to score savings with Sharks College Rush! Get alerts for deals all season long, right to your phone. Enjoy discounts exclusively for college students using your sjsu.edu email address.
|
| San Jose Downtown | Special Offers for SJSU Student & Staff |
| Downtown Farmer's Market |
Wednesdays Come to Hammer Theatre Plaza from 9-1:30 on Wednesdays and get fresh produce, packaged goods, and hot meals made by local food producers! |
| San Jose Jazz |
$10 Student Rush with F/T Photo ID for any available tickets starting 15 minutes to showtime. |
AUGUST
Downtown Farmer’s Market
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, August 20, 9:00 AM – 1:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Regional Farmer’s Market Association
📍 Location: 101 Paseo de San Antonio, San Jose, CA 95113
📄 Description: Come and get fresh produce, packaged goods, and hot meals made by local
food producers!
Career Panel
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, August 20, 5:30 PM – 8:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Open San Jose – Anchor Partners
📍 Location: 38 S Second Street, San Jose, CA
📄 Description: Latina Coalition alongside anchor partners like Mosaic, Nor Cal Media,
SJ Works, CreaTV, and Chopsticks Alley at Open San Jose will have a career panel,
art showcase, and program information booths. Giveaways, memberships, and merchandise
discounts (15%-25%) will be available onsite.
Chinese American Historical Tour
🗓 Date & Time: Friday, August 22, 1:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Chinese Historical Cultural Presevation Project
📍 Location: San Jose History Park
📄 Description: Join a private docent-led tour of San Jose's Chinese American Historical
Museum in the 14-acre History Park, only minutes away from SJSU. The museum building
is a replica of the Ng Shing Gung (Temple of the Five Gods), which stood from 1888
to 1949, and it features exhibits that reveal San Jose's five former Chinatowns. FREE
transportation (RSVP ASAP), docent services, and snack at the classic "O'Brien's Ice
Cream Parlor" will be provided by the host organization, Chinese Historical and Cultural
Project. www.chcp.org.
Open Mic @ Nirvana Soul
🗓 Date & Time: Friday, August 22, 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Nirvana Soul
📍 Location: 315 S 1st St, San Jose, CA
📄 Description: We host mixed open mic nights (music, poetry, comedy) every Friday
from 6-9PM. 10% student discount available!
IMB Clean-Up in Japantown
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, August 23, 9:00 AM – 1:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Japanese American Citizens League – San Jose Chapter
📍 Location: 565 N 5th St, San Jose, CA
📄 Description: We will clean windows, railings, trim trees and bushes, sweep ramps,
porches, and decks, and clean bathrooms, the kitchen, and the conference room. Cleaning
supplies will be provided. If you have tools for outdoor use, please bring them. Lunch
provided!
SJSU Flag Raising at City Hall
🗓 Date & Time: August 25, 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM
🤝 Community Partner: Office of San Jose City Council District 3
📍 Location: San Jose City Hall
📄 Description: This annual tradition celebrates the strong and growing partnership
between the City of San José and our university community. Your presence would be
a testament to the partnership that SJSU holds with the City of San Jose and local
communities. We hope you’ll be able to join us in uplifting this milestone together.
Alebrijes en San José: Arte y Musica
🗓 Date & Time: August 25, 6:30 PM - 8:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: San Jose Jazz
📍 Location: San Jose Jazz Break Room
📄 Description: The Chicle Mosaic Workshop is a unique blend of art, culture, and
wellness. Participants will begin with an inspiring introduction to Mr. Fúchila’s
journey as a first-generation child of immigrants, gaining insight into his story
of creativity and resilience. COST: $20.00 AGES: 12+ CAPACITY: 35
Local Color SoFA Mural Tour 1
🗓 Date & Time: Tuesday, August 26, 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM
🤝 Community Partner: Local Color
📍 Location: 300 S 1st Street, San Jose, CA 95113
📄 Description: The Color Walk is designed to share a new perspective of the creative
environment in San José. Participants will gain a deeper understanding of the artistic
vibrancy of our city and the diverse stories behind each mural facilitated by Local
Color in SoFA and Downtown. Includes light exercise.
Local Color SoFA Mural Tour 2
🗓 Date & Time: Tuesday, August 26, 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Local Color
📍 Location: 300 S 1st Street, San Jose, CA 95113
📄 Description: A second tour option for those who missed the first. Enjoy mural storytelling
and artistic engagement through the SoFA district.
Local Color Downtown Mural Tour
🗓 Date & Time: Tuesday, August 26, 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Local Color
📍 Location: Back Lot of Hotel De Anza, 233 W Santa Clara St, San Jose, CA 95113
📄 Description: Explore murals behind Hotel De Anza and discover the hidden artistic
gems in downtown San José. Great for art lovers and walkers!
Downtown Farmer’s Market
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, August 27, 9:00 AM – 1:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Regional Farmer’s Market Association
📍 Location: Hammer Theatre Plaza
📄 Description: Fresh produce, local goods, and artisan items—support San Jose's local
food ecosystem!
Urban Putt Student Night
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, August 27
🤝 Community Partner: Urban Putt
📍 Location: 201 S 2nd St., Suite 150, San Jose, CA 95113
📄 Description: 25% off mini-golf for students, 10% off for alumni. Student night packages
available. Must enter before 8 PM to stay past curfew. Fully accessible facility.
Welcome Black
🗓 Date & Time: Thursday, August 28
🤝 Community Partner: AACSA, SJSU Black Alumni Network, BLOC, BSU
📍 Location: 304 N 6th St, San Jose, CA 95112
📄 Description: This event ensures incoming and current Black students are equipped
with resources, scholarships, internships, job opportunities, and volunteer experiences
while connecting with AACSA, the SJSU Black Alumni Network, and BLOC. As part of the
SJSU 408 Event Series, this event also helps students engage with local nonprofits,
small businesses, and cultural institutions to deepen their connection to San José
through art, history, civic engagement, and culture.
Open Mic @ Nirvana Soul
🗓 Date & Time: Friday, August 29, 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Nirvana Soul
📍 Location: 315 S 1st St
📄 Description: We host mixed open mic nights (music, poetry, comedy) every Friday
from 6-9PM if any students would like to visit!
Silicon Valley Pride Parade
🗓 Date & Time: Sunday, August 31, 10:30AM
🤝 Community Partner: SVPride, SJSU Pride Center
📍 Location: Julian Street & Market Street, to Plaza de César Chávez Park
📄 Description: Walk with SJSU Pride at the Silicon Valley Pride Parade!
Experience Jaws 50th Anniversary in IMAX
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, August 30 – Monday, September 1
🤝 Community Partner: The Tech Interactive
📍 Location: 201 S Market St
📄 Description: $18 Student ticket! First 20 students to arrive get free popcorn with
student ID.
Alebrijes en San Jose
🗓 Date & Time: August – September 28
🤝 Community Partner: San Jose Jazz
📍 Location: Plaza de Cesar Chavez Park
📄 Description: Just in time for the 35th Summer Fest, San Jose Jazz and a host of
community partners bring to the region a spectacular exhibition of monumental, magical
alebrijes, part of a tour of major US cities spotlighting Oaxaca as representative
of Mexico’s artistic traditions and cultural richness. The eight extraordinary sculptures,
ranging in height from 20 to 22 feet, will be placed all over the Fest grounds and
will be on view through September 28. As night falls, these fantastical creatures
come alive, glowing with colored light emphasizing their intricate painted motifs.
SJSU Together with Spartans: Latino Family Roundtable
🗓 Date & Time: Tuesday, September 2, 5:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: SJSU Latino Advisory Council
📍 Location: MLK 225
📄 Description: Join us for a culturally affirming event that connects families, shares
student voices, and supports a smooth transition into the Spartan Family!
Downtown Farmer’s Market
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, September 3, 9:00 AM – 1:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Regional Farmer’s Market Association
📍 Location: Hammer Theatre Plaza
📄 Description: Weekly market with produce, meals, and local vendors.
Community Connections Fair
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, September 3, 10:00 AM – 1:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: SJSU Center for Community Learning & Leadership
📍 Location: 7th Street Plaza
📄 Description: Please join the SJSU Center for Community Learning & Leadership to
learn about local volunteer, service-learning, and internship opportunities!
First Fridays & Food in the Garden
🗓 Date & Time: Friday, September 5, 5:00 PM – 9:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: We Start Gardens
📍 Location: SoFA Pocket Park Garden, 540 S. First Street
📄 Description: The Garden is open to tour, ask questions, harvest and eat at a food
truck that uses farm fresh ingredients. It's a great place to chill.
Open Mic @ Nirvana Soul
🗓 Date & Time: Friday, September 5, 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Nirvana Soul
📍 Location: 315 S 1st St
📄 Description: We host mixed open mic nights (music, poetry, comedy) every Friday
from 6-9PM if any students would like to visit! 10% off student discount.
Delano Grape Strike Anniversary
🗓 Date & Time: Monday, September 8 (Time TBD)
🤝 Community Partner: LEAD Filipino
📍 Location: Gimelli Way, San Jose, CA 95133
📄 Description: Community Mixer and Local Park Activation with Free Food and Networking
Opportunities! This event will honor the legacy of the United Farm Workers and the
history of Filipino Americans in California.
Open Garden Tour & Tea
🗓 Date & Time: Tuesday, September 9, 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: We Start Gardens
📍 Location: SoFA Pocket Park Garden, 540 S. First Street
📄 Description: Try some herbal teas grown and harvested from the garden. Get down
with a little gardening if interested.
Downtown Farmer’s Market
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, September 10, 9:00 AM – 1:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Regional Farmer’s Market Association
📍 Location: Hammer Theatre Plaza
📄 Description: Weekly market featuring San José’s best local vendors.
San Jose Earthquakes vs LAFC
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, September 13, 4:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: San Jose Earthquakes
📍 Location: Levi’s Stadium
📄 Description: Discounted single game tickets for our remaining home games for college
students only. Ticket link
Sonic Flow: Movement & Sound Healing Journey
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, September 13, 11:00 AM – 12:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Mind Body Soul LLC & Bay Love Soul LLC
📍 Location: SoFA Pocket Park Garden, 540 S. First Street
📄 Description: Join us for Sonic Flow, a soul-nourishing outdoor wellness experience
where mindful Pilates-inspired movement meets the healing vibrations of sound. $35
Experience.
Welcome Luncheon
🗓 Date & Time: Sunday, September 14, 1:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: First A.M.E. Zion Church
📍 Location: 95 South Twentieth Street, San Jose, CA 95112
📄 Description: First A.M.E. Zion Church is the oldest Black church in San Jose with
160 years of service towards community spiritual development. Students are encouraged
to attend the 11AM worship service before the September Welcome Luncheon at 1:00PM.
SJSU Votes Festival
🗓 Date & Time: Tuesday, September 16
🤝 Community Partner: SJSU Votes & IPACE
📍 Location: Smith Carlos Lawn
📄 Description: Celebrate civic engagement and register to vote on campus!
Downtown Farmer’s Market
🗓 Date & Time: Wednesday, September 17, 9:00 AM – 1:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: Regional Farmer’s Market Association
📍 Location: Hammer Theatre Plaza
📄 Description: The weekly Wednesday tradition continues with fresh food and local
vibes.
East VillageSJ Block Party
🗓 Date & Time: Thursday, September 18
🤝 Community Partner: East Village SJ
📍 Location: Between 7th and 9th Street on E Santa Clara St
📄 Description: The Annual East Village Block Party Activation event is to encourage
community unity while enhancing the district’s vibrancy.
Guadalupe River Walk Beautification
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, September 20, 9:00 AM
🤝 Community Partner: Office of Mayor Matt Mahan
📍 Location: TBD
📄 Description: Join SJSU College Corps for a clean-up collaboration with the City
of San Jose!
City of San Jose & Education Football Night
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, September 20, 2:00 PM
🤝 Community Partner: City of San Jose
📍 Location: CEFCU Stadium
📄 Description: SJSU Students FREE. Celebrate education and local pride at the SJSU
home football game.
San Jose Earthquakes vs St. Louis
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday, September 20, 7:30 PM
🤝 Community Partner: San Jose Earthquakes
📍 Location: PayPal Stadium
📄 Description: Discounted single game tickets for college students only.
American Indian Heritage Celebration at SJSU
🗓 Date & Time: Saturday–Sunday, September 20–21
🤝 Community Partner: Indian Health Center & SJSU
📍 Location: SJSU Events Center
📄 Description: A multi-day celebration honoring Native American culture, traditions,
and history. Cultural activities, speakers, and community engagement throughout the
weekend.