Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/sjsucares/about/what-we-do.php
Title: What We Do
Type: HTML

What We Do
The SJSU Cares team is dedicated to promoting a sense of belonging and justice on campus through a comprehensive model that includes both short-term emergency relief and long-term support services. We provide assistance with food security, housing security, and financial stability. Additionally, we offer support for health and medical care needs to ensure a holistic approach to student well-being.
All enrolled students including undergraduate, graduate, international and undocumented students are eligible for SJSU Cares resources and services.
How to Request Assistance
To request assistance from us, fill out and submit a Request for Assistance Form. Once you submit a request for assistance, we will contact you within one business day.
Resources and Services
- Case Management
- Housing Assistance Services
- Spartan Food Pantry
- CalFresh Assistance
SJSU offers a number of resources and services on campus to help you deal with situations and issues outside of the classroom that may take away from your academic success. Some of those services include mentoring, counseling, health and wellness, and public safety assistance. We also offer a coordinated response to students matriculated in regular sessions programs who are experiencing an unforeseen economic crisis which is impacting their ability to be a successful student.
SJSU Cares can meet one to one with students who are experiencing an unforseen economic crisis to determine which resources/support can be offered. For other students it might be helpful to know of our major programs such as Spartan Food Pantry & CalFresh sign-up assistance.
What to Expect
When working with a case manager a student should anticipate an open discussion where we talk about many factors affecting their situation so we have a holistic view of what they are experiencing and how we might be a support for them on their journey. Case managers can best assist when giving unfiltered, honest, and critical information about their situation. An overview document [PDF] provides a quick 2 page view of our process, what to expect, and how to prepare.
Working in Collaboration
SJSU Cares keeps up on best practices by actively engaging in national, regional, and local forums within topics related to case management and basic needs. Beside listening to SJSU student and professional staff voices, we have active collaborations with campus academic and student services departments, community organizations, government entities, and our CSU system wide office on basic needs. These efforts align with the goal to listen, incorporate, and elevate student voices.