Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/soar/promiseprograms/spartan-east-side-promise.php
Title: Spartan East Side Promise
Type: HTML

Spartan East Side Promise
What is the Spartan East Side Promise (SESP) Program?
The Spartan East Side Promise is a San José State University program that supports East Side Union High School District (ESUHSD) students from exploring college to graduation. Launched in 2016, it guarantees admission for qualified graduates from participating high schools and helps students and families understand requirements and resources for success. SESP has expanded within Student Outreach and Recruitment (SOAR) to provide programs that ease the transition to SJSU, build connections, and promote academic, personal, and professional growth.
Spartan East Side Promise eligible high schools
Accel Middle College
Andrew P. Hill High School
Apollo High School
Calero High School
College Connection Academy
Evergreen Valley High School
Foothill High School
Independence High School
James Lick High School
Mt. Pleasant High School
Oak Grove High School
Pegasus High School
Phoenix High School
Piedmont Hills High School
Santa Teresa High School
Silver Creek High School
W.C. Overfelt High School
Yerba Buena High School
How It Works
- High school students from an SESP eligible school apply at calstate.edu/apply starting October 1st of senior year. First-time, first-year (FTFY) applicants must first meet the CSU eligibility requirements for admission and apply by the application deadline.
- Applicants are then reviewed for provisional admission through SJSU's admission selection process, called impaction. Students must meet the eligibility index (EI) score for the major they applied to in order to be offered provisional admission.
- If an eligible student does not meet the EI for their intended major, the Spartan
East Side Promise guarantees an offer of provisional admission to Undeclared for qualified
ESUHSD applicants with a 2.75 GPA or higher only if:
- The eligibility index score for their applied major is not met,
- A-G courses are completed with a C- or better, and
- All deadlines are met
Note: The 2.75 GPA is calculated using only 10th - 11th grade A-G high school courses to determine eligibility for provisional admission. Review our impaction page for more information on the eligibility index score formula, and our local preference for Santa Clara County high school graduates.
- If an eligible student does not meet the EI for their intended major, the Spartan
East Side Promise guarantees an offer of provisional admission to Undeclared for qualified
ESUHSD applicants with a 2.75 GPA or higher only if:
- Students will be notified of their provisional admission offer through their MySJSU account December - March of senior year. Students will have until May 1st of senior year to complete the Intent to Enroll process. Students must complete admission requirements by their high school graduation, and will be verified with an evaluation of their final transcripts.
- Students can register for the ESUHSD Spartan Summer Program, designed by our program in partnership with the East Side Union High School District and the East Side Education Foundation. This program typically is offered in June prior to incoming students' mandatory Sparta Camp orientation. Students must attend orientation to retain their provisional admission offer and register for courses.
Students will meet academic advisors from their College Student Success Center during Sparta Camp orientation, so that they may learn the process of registering for classes, and declaring a major if Undeclared.
Services and Resources
Spartan East Side Promise flyer
Upcoming Events, Webinars, and Presentations
SJSU Fall Preview Day 2025
Saturday, October 11, 2025 | 9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
Fall Preview Day provides students with the unique opportunity to experience life as a Spartan before applying for admission! Learn about admission requirements, majors and programs, and connect with multiple campus resources.
Plan Your Fall Preview Day Visit
ESUHSD Spartan Summer Program
In partnership with the East Side Union High School District and East Side Education Foundation, this hybrid summer program supports incoming first-time, first-year ESUHSD students with academic guidance, campus resources, and peer connections. Students learn to use SJSU’s advising tools, engage with departments, and are eligible to apply for the SESP Scholarship.
Please check back for future Spartan Summer Program dates.
Past Webinars and Presentations
Getting College Ready
Students and their families entering 9-11th grade learn about the California State University (CSU) and SJSU admission requirements, and how SESP supports students graduating from an eligible school.
Applying to San Jose State University
This webinar covers the SESP program, walks through the Cal State Apply application in English, Spanish, and Vietnamese, and highlights ESUHSD resources to keep students on track.
Next Steps Workshop (for Fall 2025 admitted students)
Check out the Next Steps Workshop recording to learn how to complete your Intent to Enroll by the May 1st deadline.
You've Got This! A Class Registration Workshop
Check out our pre-recorded workshop, "You've Got This! A Class Registration Workshop" as you prepare to create your schedule and meet with your academic advisor!
Interested in a presentation for your classroom?
Email eastsidepromise@sjsu.edu to schedule an SESP presentation for your class or organization.