Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/soar/promiseprograms/transfer-success-pathway-program.php
Title: Transfer Success Pathway Program
Type: HTML

Transfer Success Pathway Program
The Transfer Success Pathway (TSP) is a program that provides a dual admission opportunity for eligible first-time, first-year students enrolling in California Community Colleges who commit to transferring to a California State University (CSU) within three years.
Information about the program, including eligibility requirements, the application process, and the link to the CSU Transfer Planner portal, are available at the CSU Transfer Success Pathway website.
Eligibility
High School graduates from 2023 and prior who have not completed college coursework, and high school graduates from 2024 who may have completed college coursework in the summer immediately following high school graduation are eligible to apply in order to:
- Enter into a dual admission agreement with the CSU and receive guaranteed admission to the degree program and campus of their choice (if all requirements are met).
- Receive early, personalized guidance from CSU/SJSU representatives to review and discuss the requirements needed to transfer to San José State University.
- Receive financial aid information and direct access to a CSU university library.
- Use the CSU Transfer Planner portal to:
- Explore CSU campuses and degree programs, determine their eligibility, and enter into a dual admission agreement.
- Map out coursework to track their progress toward CSU bachelor’s degree requirements.
As part of the agreement, students must complete either an Associate Degree for Transfer or an established course of transfer at a California community college.
Apply
Between August 1 and September 30 students will be able to enroll in the TSP program by applying through the Transfer Planner Portal.
Programs
Transfer Success Pathway applicants can choose from most undergraduate programs (majors) offered at SJSU. The list of available programs for the coming term can be found on the Transfer Planner Portal.
Meet With Us
Interested in learning more about the Transfer Success Pathway and how it can benefit your academic journey? Use the link below to schedule a one-on-one appointment with our TSP Coordinator, who will guide you through the program and answer any questions you may have.
For general TSP questions, please email transfersuccesspathways@sjsu.edu or schedule an appointment with our TSP Coordinator.
Schedule a 1x1 TSP Appointment
Frequently Asked Questions
Who is eligible to participate in a Transfer Success Pathway (TSP) Agreement?
- High school graduates from 2023 or earlier who haven't taken college courses since graduation
- 2024 high school graduates regardless of summer coursework
- International students who graduated from a U.S. high school with no post-high school college credit
- Gap year students qualify if they haven’t earned college credit after high school
What do students receive by participating in the TSP program?
Guaranteed admission to SJSU and their degree program, as long as transfer requirements are met within the required timeframe of three years.
How do students track and complete transfer requirements?
Students work with a TSP counselor and use the CSU Transfer Planner to map coursework and ensure they meet transfer requirements within three years.
Are students eligible to apply to multiple TSP programs?
No, students may attend multiple community colleges but can only apply to one TSP program and have one agreement.
How does a student submit a TSP agreement?
Students will be able to view available TSP agreements by campus and enroll in a TSP agreement through the Transfer Planner Portal.
What is the time frame to submit a TSP agreement?
Agreements can be submitted from August 1 to September 30. The Transfer Planner opens in late May for students to explore programs.
How many TSP agreements can a student have?
Students can only have one TSP agreement; multiple enrollments are not allowed and will be reviewed by campus officials.
Can a student change their TSP agreement to another CSU later?
Yes, by submitting a release request for campus review. If approved and processed within the filing period, they can enroll in a new agreement.
How long do students have to cancel and enter another agreement? Must it be during the Enrollment Period?
Students can cancel anytime, but selecting a new campus or major is only allowed during the August 1–September 30 enrollment period.
If a student is found ineligible for the TSP program, can they try with another school?
No. Ineligible students cannot enter any TSP agreement with any CSU campus but can still use the CSU Transfer Planner.
Do TSP students need to submit a Cal State Apply application when ready to transfer?
Yes, currently students must apply or reapply. Future Transfer Planner updates will enable direct transfer to Cal State Apply.
If a campus lowers the GPA requirement after a student signs an agreement, should they honor the lower GPA?
Yes. Likewise, if the GPA requirement increases later, the campus must honor the original, lower GPA at the time of signing.