Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/soar/promiseprograms/western-undergraduate-exchange-wue.php
Title: Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE)
Type: HTML

Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE)
Non-Resident Tuition Discount
SJSU offers the WUE program (pronounced "woo-wee") to new students who want to engage in hands-on learning experiences in the heart of innovation.
The WUE program is an option for residents of participating Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education (WICHE) states to pay tuition fees at 150% of the regular California resident tuition rate.
Members of WICHE include:
- Alaska
- Arizona
- California
- Colorado
- Hawaii
- Idaho
- Montana
- Nevada
- New Mexico
- North Dakota
- Oregon
- South Dakota
- Utah
- Washington
- Wyoming
Residents of the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands (CNMI) are also eligible to receive the special WUE tuition rate.
Attending SJSU through the WUE programs provides new Spartans with a more affordable path to obtain a degree from a truly transformative university.
Available Majors
List of WUE-eligible SJSU majors
Advertising
African American Studies
Anthropology
Applied Mathematics - Applied and Computational
Art - Digital Media Art
Art - Photography
Art - Pictorial Arts
Art - Spatial Arts
Art - Studio Practice
Art - Studio Practice - Preparing for Teaching
Art History and Visual Culture
Asian American Studies
Behavioral Science
Biological Sciences - Microbiology
Biological Sciences - Molecular Biology
Biological Sciences - Systems Physiology
Biomedical Engineering
Biomedical Engineering (SAGE - Combined BS and MS)
Business Administration - Accounting Info Systems
Business Administration - Corporate Accounting & Finance
Business Administration - General Business∇
Business Administration - Hospitality, Tourism and Event Management
Business Administration - Human Resource Management
Business Administration - International Business
Business Administration - Operations and Supply Chain Management
Chemical Engineering
Chemistry - Biochemistry
Chemistry (BA)
Chemistry (BS)
Chicana and Chicano Studies
Child and Adolescent Development
Child and Adolescent Development (SAGE - Combined BA and Multi-Subject Credential)
Child and Adolescent Development - Preparation for Teaching
Child and Adolescent Development - Preparation for Teaching (SAGE - Combined BA and MA)
Chinese
Civil Engineering
Climate Science
Communicative Disorders and Sciences
Composition
Computer Science and Linguistics
Creative Arts
Dance (BA)
Dance (BFA)
Data Science
Design Studies
Earth System Science
Ecology and Evolution
Economics (BA)
Economics (BS)
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering (SAGE - Combined BS and MS)
Engineering Technology - Computer Network System Management
Engineering Technology - Manufacturing Systems
English
English - Creative Writing
English - Preparation for Teaching
English - Professional and Technical Writing
Environmental Studies (BA)
Environmental Studies (BS)
French
Geographic Information Science
Geography
Geology
Global Studies
Graphic Design∇
History
Humanities - American Studies
Humanities - Liberal Arts
Humanities - Religious Studies
Industrial & Systems Engineering
Industrial & Systems Engineering (SAGE - Combined BS and MS)
Industrial Design∇
Information Science & Data Analytics (First-Time First Year Only)
Interdisciplinary Engineering
Interior Design∇
Japanese
Jazz Studies
Journalism
Kinesiology - Preparation for Teaching
Liberal Studies - Integrated Teacher Education Program
Liberal Studies - Integrated Teacher Education Program, Spanish Bilingual
Liberal Studies - Preparation for Teaching
Liberal Studies - Preparation for Teaching (SAGE - Combined BA and Multi-Subject Credential)
Liberal Studies - Teacher Prep, Spanish Bilingual (SAGE - Combined BA and Multi-Subject Credential)
Linguistics
Marine Biology
Materials Engineering
Mathematics
Mathematics - Integrated Teacher Education Program
Meteorology
Music
Music Education
Nursing
Nutritional Science - Applied Nutrition and Food Sciences
Nutritional Science - Dietetics
Nutritional Science - Food Management
Packaging
Performance
Philosophy
Physics - Preparation for Teaching
Physics (BA)
Physics (BS)
Political Science
Public Health - Community Health Education
Public Health - Population Data Science
Public Relations
Radio-Television-Film
Social Science - Preparation for Teaching
Social Work
Spanish
Statistics
Theatre Arts
Undeclared - Pre-Nursing
Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
∇Majors with this symbol are not available for direct applications through Cal State Apply. Applicants to these majors will not be eligible for WUE until they have met department specific requirements for change of major.
Eligibility Requirements
New undergraduate students enrolling at SJSU starting Fall 2025 may apply for WUE if they meet the following requirements:
First Time/First Year (Freshman)
FTFY applicants must meet the non-CA resident CSU and SJSU admission requirements.
Upper Division Transfer
Upper Division Transfer applicants must meet CSU and SJSU admission requirements.
Additional Requirements
- The WUE Program is only open to U.S. Citizens and non-citizens legally present in the United States. Students planning to study at SJSU with an F or J visa type will not be eligible for the WUE program.
- Students pursuing a second bachelor’s degree, credential, master’s, doctoral, or Extended University program are not eligible to participate in WUE.
- WUE students are not eligible for California resident tuition. Students cannot apply time accrued while participating in the WUE program to establish California residency.
Applying for SJSU's WUE Program
- Submit an application for admission to SJSU at Cal State Apply. You must apply to one of the SJSU Majors accepting WUE students to be considered for the WUE program.
- After admission to SJSU, we will provide information about the WUE application process directly via MySJSU.
Maintaining WUE Status
- Maintain satisfactory academic progress
- Be enrolled as a full-time undergraduate student
- Maintain non-residency status of California for tuition purposes
- Maintain full-time enrollment (at least 12 units) each fall and spring semester and maintain a minimum 2.0 cumulative institutional GPA
Program Duration
- FTFY students can receive the WUE award for 4 years
- Transfer students can receive the WUE award for 2 years
Cost of Tuition (2026-27)
| Tuition Type | Tuition & Fees | Total |
| Resident Tuition | $6,838 (tuition) + $2,470 (fees) | $9,308 |
| Non-Resident Tuition | $9,308 (tuition) + $11,304* | $20,612 |
| WUE Tuition** | $10,257 (tuition) + $2,470 (fees) | $12,727 |
WUE Program FAQs
Who is considered for the WUE Program?
Applicants from the following states and territories participate in the WUE: Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.
How do I know if I am selected for the WUE Program?
Students will be notified via MySJSU if they have been selected.
What if it takes me more than two years (transfer students)/4 years (first time first year student) to graduate?
The WUE program will be given up to two years for transfer students and up to four years for first time freshmen. If graduation requirements cannot be met in that time frame, the student will have to pay non-resident tuition for any semesters after their allotted two or four years.
What if I want to become a California resident for tuition purposes?
To continue to qualify for the WUE program, students must maintain non-resident status. While participating in WUE, students are not eligible for California resident tuition. Students cannot apply time accrued while participating in the WUE program to establish California residency.
Will I need to reapply for WUE each year?
No, the WUE tuition is good for four years or until you graduate, whichever comes first. You do not need to reapply for the WUE scholarship for each of those four years you attend SJSU. However, if you leave the University and do not complete a planned educational leave form, you would need to reapply to the WUE program when you reapply to the University.
I am a current SJSU student and a resident of one of the participating states for WUE. Am I still eligible to apply?
No. You must apply for the WUE program before the start of your first semester. Current SJSU students are not eligible to apply for WUE.
Are WUE scholarships awarded to an unlimited number of students each year?
No. A limited number of WUE awards will be available each application term.
If I am accepted to WUE, can I change my major later?
The answer to this question depends on your new major:
If your new major is also an approved WUE major for your admission term, then you will still be eligible for the WUE program.
If your new major is not an approved WUE major for your admission term, then you will no longer be eligible
for the WUE program. Note that in this case, your request to change your major will only be approved if
you have at least two semesters remaining to graduate.