Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/soar/promiseprograms/community.php
Title: Community Partnerships
Type: HTML

Community Partnerships
The community supporting SJSU students continues to grow, bringing together dedicated partners who share a commitment to student success. These partners are breaking down barriers to higher education, expanding opportunities, and fostering an environment where every student in our programs feels empowered to thrive academically and beyond.
Silicon Valley Education Foundation
The mission of Silicon Valley Education Foundation is to deliver and advocate for STEM education that inspires underserved students to succeed in college and careers. SVEF's initiative, the East Side Alliance (ESA) offers academic preparation, school support, and financial support to over 70,000 students through scholarships, workshops, and the middle school Elevate Math program.
East Side Education Foundation
The East Side Education Foundation was created to provide an avenue to support the East Side community. In collaboration with San José State and the Silicon Valley Education Foundation, ESEF showcases the significant accomplishments of East Side graduates, promotes an added sense of pride in the East Side community, and provides unique opportunities for East Side students to continue in their education journey. ESEF is managed by a 100% volunteer board of directors, and supported by a small but mighty team of contract professionals who assist with finances, marketing, and events. This means nearly all the funds raised by the foundation go directly to support East Side students, teachers, and community. Learn more about the scholarships available for students who participate in our ESUHSD Spartan Summer Program.
Excite Credit Union
The East Side Education Foundation has partnered with Excite Credit Union on a special offer for East Side families to help their children start savings accounts. Here's how it works:
- Excite deposits $50 in the account at opening. (No deposit is required from the student or family.)
- Excite deposits another $25 in the account on the child’s 5th, 10th, 15th, and 18th birthdays.
- Excite will match up to $25 in annual deposits.
- Dividends of 5% APY** on balances up to $2,500.
The account is created in the child’s name, so the child must have a tax ID or social security number. An adult is required to co-sign the account, but the adult does not need any type of taxpayer number. Accounts can be opened in a branch or online. During the application process, select “Step Up Savings” and choose your school district when asked for your “partner organization.” For questions and assistance, email dcastro@excitecu.org.
San Jose Earthquakes
From 2018-2020, the San Jose Earthquakes Spartan East Side Promise Scholarship provided one student admitted through the SESP special admissions program with funding for their first year of tuition and on-campus housing.