Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/soar/about/new-learning-outcomes.php
Title: Learning Outcomes
Type: HTML

Learning Outcomes
University Learning Goals (ULG)
1. Specialized Knowledge
Mastered the depth of knowledge required for a degree, as identified by its program learning outcomes.
2. Broad Integrative Knowledge
Mastery in each step of an investigative, creative or practical project (i.e. brainstorming, planning, formulating hypotheses or complex questions, designing, creating, completing, and communicating).
An understanding of the implications of results or findings from a particular work in a societal context (i.e. social or economic implications of a scientific finding).
Students graduating with a baccalaureate degree will have demonstrated an understanding of critical components of broad academic areas, the arts, humanities, social sciences, and sciences and their integration.
3. Intellectual Skills
Fluency in the use of specific theories, tools, technology and graphical representation.
Skills and abilities necessary for life-long learning: critical and creative thinking, effective communication, conscientious information gathering and processing, mastery of quantitative methodologies, and the ability to engage effectively in collaborative activities.
4. Applied Knowledge
The ability to integrate theory, practice, and problem-solving to address practical issues.
The ability to apply their knowledge and skills to new settings or in addressing complex problems.
The ability to work productively as individuals and in groups.
5. Social and Global Responsibilities
The ability to act intentionally and ethically to address a global or local problem in an informed manner with a multicultural and historical perspective and a clear understanding of societal and civic responsibilities.
Diverse and global perspectives through engagement with the multidimensional SJSU community.
Enrollment Services Learning Outcomes
- Students will know and understand the policies and procedures that guide admission,
enrollment and graduation at SJSU (Applied Knowledge).
- Students will demonstrate competence in applying the policies and procedures that
guide admission, enrollment and graduation at SJSU (Applied Knowledge).
- Students will utilize MySJSU effectively to access information and conduct business
with the university (Intellectual Skills).
- Students will demonstrate effective communication and critical thinking skills in assessing information and services provided by Enrollment Services (Intellectual Skills).