Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/studentaffairs/proposed-ira-fee/get-involved.php
Title: Get Involved
Type: HTML

Get Involved
We are committed to keeping students informed and involved in decisions that impact them, and the alternative consultation process is all about meaningful engagement.
All students will have opportunities to learn about the proposal, ask questions, and share their perspectives through open forums and other interactive efforts. In additon, the Campus Fee Advisory Committee (CFAC) continues to present to campus organizations and student leaders in order to gather diverse feedback, promote informed student participation, and expand student reach.
Take our Survey
The Campus Fee Advisory Committee (CFAC) urgently seeks the opinions, recommendations, and input of all students on the proposed new Instructional Related Activities (IRA) fee.
To that end, you are invited to complete this survey by February 17, 2026, 11:59 PM. The survey contains five questions and will take approximately 5-10 minutes to complete. You will be able to access the survey by logging into either One.sjsu or Canvas, and viewing the announcements section.
To ensure confidentiality, all survey responses will first go to the SJSU Office of Institutional Research & Strategic Analytics (IRSA), where identifying information will be removed, and the data will be aggregated. After that, the data will be forwarded to CFAC for analysis. CFAC will look for key thematic patterns, which will be carefully considered when CFAC submits its recommendations to the President on March 6, 2026.
If you have any questions about CFAC or the content of this survey, please contact the CFAC Chair, Mari Fuentes-Martin at cfac@sjsu.edu.
If you have questions about the confidential administration of this survey, please contact Marco Antonio Cruz, Senior Director for IRSA, at institutional-research@sjsu.edu.
Log into one.sjsu to view survey info
Open Forums
Students are invited to attend open forums to learn more about the proposed IRA fee.
Each forum will include an overview of the free proposal, followed by an opportunity
for students to ask questions and share feedback with campus subject matter experts.
Open Forums Schedule
Date: January 27, 2026
Location: Student Union Theater
Time: 4-6 p.m.
Date: Feburary 10, 2026
Location: Student Union Theater
Time: 12:00 to 1:30 p.m.