Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/studentaffairs/proposed-ira-fee/fee-proposal.php
Title: 2026 Student Fee Proposal
Type: HTML

2026 Student Fee Proposal
PDF Copy [pdf]
New IRA Fee Proposal for Campus Fee Advisory Committee
Background
San José State University is dedicated to strengthening academic excellence, expanding student support services, and enriching the overall student experience—core elements of a vibrant and successful university community. The proposed establishment of a new Instructionally Related Activities (IRA) fee is intended to enhance the university’s ability to deliver high-quality programs and address critical needs that students have identified as essential to their success and well-being.
The new IRA funding will address student needs: instructional support (e.g. academic service centers, technology, equipment and experiential learning), alleviate parking and transportation pressures (e.g. transit), promote school spirit and student life through intramurals, club sports, student engagement, Division I athletic competitions, and elevate co-curricular programs such as journalism and the Spartan Marching Band.
Since the last mandatory campus fee increase in FY 2012-13 (new SSETF which was subsequently reduced in FY 2014-15), the cost of essential student-focused services and programs has dramatically increased and State support of the CSU has been dramatically reduced. SJSU had to reduce its campus operating budget the last two fiscal years; for FY 2025-26 the operating budget was reduced by $8 million.
Strategic Need Statement
The IRA fee is designed to provide stable, long-term funding for programs, services, and learning experiences that directly support student academic success and educational enrichment. The fee ensures that essential instructional activities—such as labs, performances, publications, field experiences, equipment access, and academic support programs—have the resources required to support an equitable learning environment for all SJSU students.
SJSU continues to face significant increases in the cost of delivering high-quality, hands-on, and experiential learning opportunities. Costs for equipment, technology, materials, field trips, and operational support for student academic programs have outpaced existing levels of funding. Many departments are unable to maintain or expand the instructional and other experiences students expect. The proposed IRA fee will sustain and strengthen instructionally related and co-curricular programs vital to student learning and success and will reinforce SJSU’s mission to empower students through innovation, inclusion, and experiential education.
Fee Proposal
- CSU Fee Name: Instructionally Related Activities (IRA) Fee (NEW)
- Proposed Implementation: Fall 2026 (Academic Year 2026–2027)
- Proposed Fee Amount: $369 per academic year ($184.50 per semester)
SJSU’s campus mandatory fees for FY 2025-26 are $2,396 per year. SJSU currently ranks #7 in the CSU with lower campus fees than Chico, Sacramento, Sonoma, San Diego, Maritime and Cal Poly SLO. With this new IRA fee of $369 per academic year, SJSU’s annual fees for FY 2026-27 would increase to $2,765 per academic year (15% increase in mandatory fees as compared to FY 2025-26) and would rank #4 below San Diego State (SDSU fees are currently $2,730 per academic year but we understand they are proposing a $250 annual IRA fee increase for FY 2026-27), Maritime ($3,475/year), and Cal Poly SLO ($7,000/year).
The establishment of a new IRA fee will provide ongoing support for programs and activities that are integrally related to the formal instructional offerings of the University, consistent with CSU policy. The proposed IRA Fee will provide stable, equitable funding to sustain and enhance programs and initiatives that directly and meaningfully benefit SJSU students and that contribute to student learning, engagement, and campus life, including:
- Instructional support activities (labs, fieldwork, undergraduate research, music/theatre performances, exhibitions)
- Transit – Bay Area Clipper Pass or other alternative transportation needs
- Student engagement initiatives
- Club Sports/Intramural programs
- The SJSU Marching Band
- The Spartan Daily – student newspaper
- Spartan Intercollegiate Athletics
Fee Category
An IRA fee is classified as a Category II – Campus-Based Mandatory Fee, as defined in CSU Executive Order 1102. Category II fees are required to enroll in or attend the University and are established through an alternative student consultation process and approval by the Chancellor following the recommendation of the campus president.
Instructionally Related Activities are integral components of a comprehensive educational experience, providing opportunities for applied learning, leadership development, and community engagement consistent with Education Code 89230.
Over the past decade, programs typically supported with IRA funding have faced increasing financial pressures due to not having a dedicated IRA fee as the prior IRA fee was bundled and included with the new Student Success fee (SSETF) in Fall 2012. This fee was subsequently reduced in Fall 2014. The reduction of this fee in Fall 2014 resulted in a cumulative loss to SJSU of almost $87 million in cumulative funding over the past twelve years. Had that fee not been reduced, the campus would have had an additional $9 million in funding for SSETF this fiscal year alone. Since Fall 2014, the SSETF fee pool has been challenged to be able to support the ongoing needs of SJSU students due to:
- Growth in student participation and program expansion
- Rising operational and equipment costs
- Diminished State (CSU) funding sources
- Greater demand for equitable support across academic and co-curricular programs
The proposed new IRA fee will ensure sustained investment in activities that directly benefit student learning outcomes and campus engagement consistent with other CSU campuses. SJSU is the only CSU campus without a dedicated, stand-alone IRA fee.
| Fee | Amount | Frequency | Effective Term | Population | Projected Annual Revenue* |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Instructionally Related Activities (IRA) Fee | $369 | Annual ($184.50 per semester) | Fall 2026 | All enrolled students | Approx. $12.9 million (based on 35,000 students) |
*Revenue projections are based on full-time equivalent student enrollment (headcount) and will vary annually. Fee will be increased each year in accordance with HEPI (Higher Education Price Index), a national higher-education cost inflation index.
| Proposed Allocation of New IRA Fee | Proposed Annual Allocation | Notes | |||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Academic/Instructional Support | $3,745,000 | Net increase of $2 million (reduction of $1.745 MSSETF) | 29% | ||
| Alternative Transportation/Bay Area Transit Pass | $1,715,000 | 13% | |||
| Club Sports/Intramurals | $850,000 | Net Increase of $350K (reduction of $250K SSETF) and an additional $250K of New IRA will replace funding previously allocated through Athletic Dept (SSETF) | 7% | ||
| Intercollegiate Athletics | $5,000,000 | 39% | |||
| Marching Band | $250,000 | 2% | |||
| Spartan Daily - Student Newspaper | $25,000 | 0.2% | |||
| Student Engagement Programs | $300,000 | 2% | |||
| Total: | $11,885,000 | 92% | |||
| 2026/27 Total Estimated IRA Fee Revenue (35,000 headcount): | $12,915,000 | $369.00 | 35,000 | ||
| Balance Available: | $1,030,000 | Avaiable for one-time annual allocations | 8% | ||
| 100% |
Note: The above are proposed fee distribution amounts and are not final. The final allocations will be determined after the alternative consultative process has concluded.
1. Instructional Support Activities
Overview
Increase in base budget funding provided to Academic Affairs by $3.745 million annually. Laboratory, field experiences, undergraduate research, music and theatre performances, and exhibitions are essential high-impact practices that directly advance SJSU’s academic mission. These activities provide hands-on, experiential learning opportunities that elevate student success and deepen mastery of interdisciplinary skills.
Proposed Solution
Funding will support critical instructional experiences, including equipment and materials for labs and fieldwork; production costs for performances and student exhibitions; support for faculty-supervised student projects; enhanced accessibility of academic service centers (e.g. tutoring, supplemental instruction); updated technology and software (classrooms); and support for high-impact, experiential learning programs.
Rationale & Benefits
This investment ensures that all students have equitable access to experiential learning central to degree completion. Additional funding will strengthen academic quality, increase student engagement, and improve career readiness.
2. Alternative Transportation/Transit – Bay Area Clipper Pass
Overview
$1.715 million new funding provided to Transportation Solutions to pay for the Bay Area Clipper Pass pilot program for all students. The Clipper Pass provides unlimited access to all bus, rail, and ferry services in the nine-county Bay Area region. Reliable and affordable public transit is a foundational component of student access, retention, and wellbeing. Many SJSU students are commuter-based and rely heavily on transit to participate fully in academic and co-curricular life.
Proposed Solution
Funding will support a Bay Area Clipper Pass for all enrolled full-time and part-time SJSU students in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement between Associated Students and Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC). This program will provide students with access to regional transit systems, reducing commuting barriers and improving campus connectivity. The MTC has committed to this program for SJSU students through June 30, 2027.
Rationale & Benefits
A student fee-supported transit pass reduces out-of-pocket transportation costs, promotes sustainability, and directly enhances students’ ability to attend classes, labs, internships, and campus activities. Improved mobility supports retention, reduces parking demand, and aligns with SJSU sustainability goals.
3. Student Engagement Initiatives
Overview
$300,000 annual new funding. Co-curricular engagement available to all students—including leadership programs, cultural events, service learning, and student development initiatives—is a proven driver of academic success and student belonging.
Proposed Solution
Funding will support a portfolio of structured student engagement programs that strengthen community, leadership development, and student wellbeing, ensuring broad access to meaningful out-of-class learning.
Rationale & Benefits
Enhanced engagement opportunities available to all students foster a stronger sense of belonging, improve retention and graduation rates, and contribute to a vibrant campus life. These initiatives support holistic student development and respond to student demand for more inclusive, accessible, and mission-aligned programming.
4. Club Sports and Intramurals
Overview
$350,000 annual new funding. Club sports and intramural programs enrich the student experience by promoting physical wellness, teamwork, and community involvement. Participation is consistently high and contributes significantly to campus vibrancy.
Proposed Solution
Funding will support club sport travel, uniforms, equipment, safety requirements, league fees, facility access, and staffing to support intramural program operations. Funding will support creation of additional club sport team and intramural activities.
Rationale & Benefits
Investment in recreational sport opportunities enhances student wellness, supports social connection, and provides leadership and teamwork experience. These programs contribute to campus health and wellness initiatives and provide inclusive, recreational options for the entire student body.
5. The SJSU Marching Band
Overview
$250,000 annual new funding. The Spartan Marching Band is a signature student performance ensemble with over 135 student participants that contributes to academic achievement, campus spirit, and community engagement. It represents SJSU locally, regionally, and nationally and plays for a variety of athletic, campus, and community events each year.
Proposed Solution
Funding will provide a stable financial foundation, ensuring that our students can continue to perform at campus events, athletic competitions, and community engagements while enhancing school spirit and representing the university with pride. Funding will support instruments, uniforms, travel, instructional support from part-time Graduate Assistants, and other general operating needs in order to maintain high artistic and performance standards.
Rationale & Benefits
The Spartan Marching Band is a longstanding experiential learning program that enhances the visibility and pride of the university, strengthens recruitment, and provides performance-based learning opportunities for students in music and related disciplines. A strong marching band elevates campus culture and pride and enhances the student experience across athletic and university events and provides for community connection by playing at local and regional events.
6. The Spartan Daily – Student Newspaper
Overview
$25,000 annual new funding. The Spartan Daily is a premier, award-winning student-run publication that provides real-world journalism experience while serving as an important source of campus news and civic engagement.
Proposed Solution
Funding will support essential operating expenses — including printing, equipment, digital production tools, and travel—to maintain the newspaper’s high-quality journalistic standards and student training opportunities.
Rationale & Benefits
Support for the Spartan Daily enhances students’ professional skills in reporting, multimedia production, and editorial management while promoting transparency and information-sharing across campus. A strong student newspaper contributes to civic literacy, accountability, and an informed student body.
7. Spartan Intercollegiate Athletics
Overview
$5 million annual new funding from the proposed IRA fee. Approximately 475 students participate directly in intercollegiate athletics. Intercollegiate athletics is a core student activity that builds community, enhances institutional visibility nationally through brand recognition, enhances alumni and donor engagement and support, and provides student-athletes with structured leadership, academic support, and competitive opportunities.
Proposed Solution
Increased funding will enhance student-athlete support, facility operations, sport team operations (travel, uniforms, equipment), facility maintenance costs, and academic and counseling services which align with Education Code guidelines.
Rationale & Benefits
Athletics is a driver of student, alumni, and community engagement, University branding, and donor cultivation. Universities that invest in their athletic programs benefit from increased student applications, stronger alumni engagement, enhanced campus culture, and athletic events contribute directly to the economic vitality of the local region.
This funding will strengthen student-athlete academic success, enhance campus spirit, and will support activities that engage the broader student community.
8. IRA Committee Directed Annual Initiative Funding Pool
Overview
Approximately $1 million for an annual new funding pool to be administered by a new IRA Advisory Committee to annually fund initiatives. IRA Advisory Committees typically include students, faculty, and administrative representatives who evaluate campus proposals for funding.
IRA Advisory Committee
The IRA fund will operate with guidance from an advisory committee composed of nine (9) total members, co-chaired by the Provost and the Associated Students, Inc. (ASI) President or their designees. Students will be the majority of voting members.
Committee membership will include:
- Provost (or designee), Co-Chair
- Associated Students, Inc. (ASI) President (or desinee), Co-Chair
- Four (4) ASI student representatives
- Two (2) faculty members appointed by the President
- Vice President for Student Affairs (VPSA) (or designee)
Proposed Solution
A flexible method using the IRA Advisory Committee will annually evaluate initiatives and allow funding for activities and experiences integral, but not core, to the formal university instructional curriculum. Possible initiatives to be funded using the pool could include new academic competitions or hackathons, short-notice field experiences tied to grant or industry opportunities, pilot experiential learning initiatives, and many others. This pool would allow flexibility to support academic innovation without waiting for a full budget cycle, as the committee could potentially be structured to award funding during the academic year, rather than just at the beginning.
Rationale & Benefits
The IRA Advisory Committee would be charged with reviewing and recommending funding allocations from the initiative pool for additional IRA-designated programs, ensuring student consultation consistent with CSU fee policy, promoting transparency and accountability in how IRA funds are used, and confirming alignment with CSU criteria and SJSU’s academic and student-success priorities.
Alternative Student Consultation
In accordance with Executive Order 1102, the campus with oversight and coordination from CFAC, will conduct a comprehensive alternative consultation process.
Financial Aid
Campus-based mandatory student fees (Category II) are included in the Cost of Attendance
and may be fully or partially offset by financial aid awards. Coverage varies based
on a student’s eligibility. Currently, 40% of SJSU students (approximately 14,000)
receive financial aid based on Cost of Attendance and will not be impacted by this
fee increase; 26% (9,100) of SJSU students receive a partial financial aid award and
will be impacted with a minimal fee increase.
Implementation Timeline
CFAC’s final recommendation (per the CSU Checklist) including documented feedback
from the alternative consultation process will need to be submitted to the campus
president who will then review and finalize the fee proposal for final approval by
the CSU Chancellor on or around March 15, 2026.
Conclusion:
This fee is an investment in the academic future of every SJSU student, ensuring that the university continues to deliver high-quality instruction, maintain competitive academic programs, and provide enriching educational experiences.
In addition, an IRA Advisory Committee will be established to review and recommend annual budget allocations (for any unallocated fund balances) and will assess outcomes of programs and services receiving IRA funds. Annual expenditure and impact reports will be published on the campus website for student and campus community review.