Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/studentaffairs/proposed-ira-fee/index.php
Title: Proposed IRA Fee
Type: HTML

Proposed IRA Fee
San José State University’s Campus Fee Advisory Committee (CFAC) is conducting an alternative consultation process to review a proposal to introduce a new Category II mandatory fee. The goal of this proposal is to strengthen SJSU’s ability to support our students' academic success, health, and overall experience. The proposed new fee would help sustain and enhance vital programs that directly benefit students. Because this initiative has a broad impact on the student body, President Cynthia Teniente-Matson has determined that an alternative consultation process is the best way to gather informed and meaningful student feedback. On this website, we are offering transparency into the mandated process with documentation and information. Included you will find the fee proposal and FAQ's to provide basic facts about this initiative. We will also also be conducting a survey to gather student feedback regarding this proposed new fee. The engagement of our students will help ensure that SJSU continues to provide high-quality, affordable, and accessible programs that enrich your time as a Spartan.
The funds generated will be allocated exclusively to initiatives that directly and meaningfully benefit SJSU students and would be distributed across categories such as Marching Band, Club Sports, Athletics, Spartan Daily, Student Engagement, Transportation and Instructional Support Programs and Initiatives.
Frequently Asked Questions
The Campus Fee Advisory Committee (CFAC) urgently seeks the opinions, recommendations and input of all students on the proposed new Instructionally Related Activities (IRA) fee. To that end, you are invited to complete this survey by February 17, 2026 at 11:59 p.m. The survey contains five questions and will take approximately 5-10 minutes to complete. You will be able to access the survey by logging into either One.SJSU or Canvas and visiting the Announcements section.