Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/studentaffairs/proposed-ira-fee/cfac-committee.php
Title: Campus Fee Advisory Committee (CFAC)
Type: HTML

Campus Fee Advisory Committee (CFAC)
The Role of CFAC
The Campus Fee Advisory Committee [CFAC] is a working committee, serving in an advisory role, that reviews campus fee proposals and makes recommendations to the campus President. All decisions made by CFAC concerning fee proposals are governed by Executive Order 1102. At San José State University, review of proposals for activities supported by Student Success, Excellence & Technology Fees [SSETF] and their recommendations are included in CFAC’s purview.
The Committee’s membership is governed by the California State University Student Fee Policy - Executive Order 1102, section IV - Responsibility:
- The president is responsible for assuring that appropriate and meaningful consultation
occurs prior to adjusting any campus-based fee and before requesting that the chancellor
establish a new Category II or Category III fee.
- The president shall establish a Campus Fee Advisory Committee comprised of student, faculty, staff, and administrative representatives to provide advice to the president. Membership of the Campus Fee Advisory Committee shall be established in consultation with the campus student body association and the campus faculty senate and shall include the president of the campus student body association and the chair of the campus faculty senate or their designees. The president shall appoint the chair of the Campus Fee Advisory Committee.
- The president shall appoint members to the Campus Fee Advisory Committee, excluding the student representatives who shall be appointed by the campus student body association. Faculty members shall be appointed consistent with normal campus processes for selecting faculty members to serve on similar committees.
- Students appointed by the campus student body association shall constitute a majority of the voting members of the Campus Fee Advisory Committee.
San José State’s committee is comprised of 13 members who serve one-year terms, with reappointments allowed. The committee meets at least once a semester, and as needed when fee proposals are brought forward for review.
CFAC Member Roster
Membership
Membership is as follows:
- Associated Students President, or designee
- Six students selected by Associated Students in accordance with normally established procedures; inclusion of a graduate student appointee is recommended
- Academic Senate Chair, or designee
- One faculty member, appointed by the campus President after consultation with the Executive Committee of the Academic Senate
- One representative from the Academic Affairs Division, appointed by the campus President
- One representative from the Administration and Finance Division, appointed by the campus President
- One representative from the Information Technology Division, appointed by the campus President
- Once representative from the Student Affairs Division, appointed by the campus President
From these members, the campus President annually appoints one person to act as the chairperson of CFAC.
Student Representatives
Katelyn Gambarin, A.S. President
Rishika Joshi, A.S. Controller
Sivagmi Subramanyan, A.S. Director of Business Affairs
Adi Tuiedelaibatiki, A.S. Director of Intercultural Affairs
Teairra Brown, A.S. Director of Student Resource Affairs
Ishan Shah, Student
Zyjay Cruz, Student
Faculty Representatives
Tabitha Hart, Senate Chair
Hiu Yung Wong, Senate Vice Chair/Associate Professor
Division Representatives
Student Affairs: Mari Fuentes-Martin [Chair], Vice-President
Administration & Finance: Kathy Kaoudis, Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Ex Officio
Administration & Finance: Maureen Pasag, Sr AVP Financial Services & Budget Management
Academic Affairs: Sami Monsur, AVP Academic Business & Strategic Operations
Information Technology: Chris Wessels, Interim VP of Information Technology
Staff to the Committee
Jennifer Corgiat, Director of Resource Management Student Affairs
CFAC Meetings and Minutes
Fiscal Year 2025
September 23, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials
October 27, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials
November 6, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials
November 17, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials
December 4, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials
December 11, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials
January 8, 2026 CFAC Meeting Materials
January 13, 2026 CFAC Meeting Materials
January 22, 2026 CFAC Meeting Materials
Fiscal Year 2024
April 25, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials [pdf]
March 18, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials [pdf]
February 14, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials [pdf]
January 24, 2025 CFAC Meeting Materials [pdf]
December 19, 2024 CFAC Meeting Materials [pdf]
November 19, 2024 CFAC Meeting Materials [pdf]