Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/studentaffairs/index.php
Title: Student Affairs
Type: HTML

Student Affairs is your gateway to a vibrant campus life experience here at SJSU. We're dedicated to designing a student experience for your unique needs. We guide students toward meaningful resources, programs, services, and leadership opportunities.
Meet the Vice President of Student Affairs
SJSU's Vice President of Student Affairs Mari Fuentes-Martin wants to ensure that every student has a meaningful experience here at SJSU. She's always here to support students in achieving their goals.
Featured News
Deep Dive in Five: SJSU Cares is Here for Spartans in Need
All SJSU students have access to the Spartan Food Pantry in the Diaz Compean Student Union, as well as other basic needs supports through SJSU Cares.
Ten Spartans Selected for Apple NextGen Innovator Mentorship Program
Ten San José State students have been selected to participate in Apple’s Next-Gen Innovators Mentorship program, a ten-month opportunity that pairs college sophomores and juniors with mentors from Apple’s hardware engineering team.
SJSU Students Accepted into Highly-Selective Y Combinator Program
Mizan Rupan-Tompkins, ’28 Computer Science and Linguistics, and Hunter Nguyen, ’28 Computer Science, were recently accepted into the prestigious Y Combinator program, a startup accelerator that is well-known for incubating companies like Airbnb and Doordash.
Immerse yourself in our vibrant and diverse campus community. Attend an upcoming event!
Student Testimonials
Download our App
Get access to the latest updates and events. Connect with community. Download the SAMMY app on your phone's App Store today.
ChatGPT/GenAI FAQs
Curious about how to use ChatGPT and other generative AI tools as a student? Visit our FAQs page for answers to common questions, tips for getting started, and guidance on using AI responsibly in your coursework. Whether you're new to AI or looking to deepen your understanding, the FAQs are a great place to begin.
Support Our Work
Your financial support helps us to provide resources and create learning opportunities beyond the classroom to nurture the intellectual, personal, and civic growth of our students.