Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/teachered/academics/sscpintern.php
Title: Single Subject Credential Program Intern Pathway
Type: HTML

Single Subject Credential Program Intern Pathway
- Overview
- Eligibility
- Steps to Apply for Intern Pathway
- Deadlines
- Apply for Intern Credential
- Program Requirements and Disclosures
- Program Partners
Overview
The intern program pathway is designed for individuals who have successful prior experience with lead-teaching in a K-12 classroom and who seek an alternative route to earning their preliminary credential. The Intern program provides qualified candidates who are offered a teaching position an opportunity to complete the credential program as a contracted (paid) teacher under an Internship Credential. Intern candidates receive support from a university field supervisor and an on-site coach from the school while completing their credential coursework.
The intern program pathway is designed for individuals in one of the following contexts:
- Candidates who are scheduled to complete their final phase of student teaching and have been offered a teaching position by a partnering
school district in the program’s primary service area. Candidates who transition to the intern program at this point will complete the program
over 1-2 additional semesters, depending on MA options. Those who are pursuing the MA will complete their final MA project the semester after
completing the credential program.
- Incoming teacher candidates with documented successful long-term lead-teaching experience, who are teaching on contract for a school district or have been offered a position by a district. Candidates must take pre-intern coursework, which is offered during the summer, to satisfy intern pre-service requirements prior to entering the intern program pathway. This is a 4-5 semester program of study, depending on MA options.
View our Sample Intern Program Course Sequence Models [pdf].
Eligibility
In order to be eligible for our Intern program, applicants must:
- Have served as the primary classroom teacher, teacher of record, or as a long-term
substitute for a period of five months or more in an in-person setting.
- Must hold a baccalaureate degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution
of higher education.
- Meet all admission criteria and deadlines for our Single Subject Credential Program, including the corresponding Subject Matter Competency requirements, as well as the U.S. Constitution prior to qualifying for an intern credential.
- While not required to qualify for an intern credential, prior to beginning their intern
placement, interns will need to meet the TB requirement.
- Be recommended for the Intern Program by our Intern Coordinator and in consultation with subject-area coordinator and phase I supervisor, when applicable. There are limited slots in this program and not every candidate who applies will be selected for the intern pathway. Recommendations will be made based on the candidate’s demonstrated readiness to be the teacher of record in a classroom and the candidate’s skills and dispositions in relation to the CA Teacher Performance Expectations [pdf].
Pre-Service Requirement
Must successfully complete the following pre-requisite courses prior to being accepted into the intern pathway: EDTE 262, EDTE 224, EDTE 294. Descriptions of these courses are available on the SJSU Catalog website.
Bilingual Language Proficiency (Mandarin and Spanish)
- Mandarin Candidates for the Internship program who are authorized to teach in Mandarin bilingual classrooms are required to demonstrate proficiency in Mandarin and pass Subtest III of the Mandarin CSET (aka as Mandarin LOTE III) or have a degree in Mandarin from an accredited institution of higher education or have a degree from a Mandarin-speaking institution.
- Candidates for the Internship program who are authorized to teach in Spanish bilingual classrooms are required to demonstrate proficiency in Spanish and pass Subtest III of the Spanish CSET (aka as Spanish LOTE III) or have a degree in Spanish from an accredited institution of higher education or have a degree from a Spanish-speaking institution.
Early Completion
Information about this option is provided here [pdf]. Candidates who pursue this option will complete the intern field experience requirements
(two semesters of 184Y and/or Z) and take the seminars (EDSC 153, EDTE 297C, and subject-specific
seminar) that support them in their field experience and completion of the teacher
performance assessment. Candidates considering this option must meet with the Intern
Coordinator to discuss the details of this option.
Teaching positions must meet specific intern and subject-matter requirements. University
supervisor availability in the subject-area must also be established before an intern
position is approved.
Apply for the Intern Pathway
1. If you have not yet applied to the to the Single Subject (SS) Credential Program, please follow all instructions on the Admissions webpage to submit your application
to the university and program.
2. Complete and submit this Single Subject Intern Pathway Application form. Note: You may submit this form while you are in the process of applying to the university
and SSCP Program.
3.Submit Additional Materials (If Eligible)
Applicants identified as potential interns will receive instructions for participating
in an intern interview and submitting additional materials based on their pathway:
- Conventional Intern:
Complete an intern interview and submit a mid- or end-of-semester university supervisor evaluation (for those who have completed or are completing Phase 1 Student Teaching).
- Early Intern:
Complete an intern interview and submit two or more documented evaluations from a current or recent school administrator or department chair (for those who have not completed Phase 1 Student Teaching)
Deadlines
- To be considered for the intern pathway for the fall semester, intern pathway applications must be submitted by April 15th.
- To be considered for the intern pathway for the spring semester, intern pathway applications must be submitted by November 15th
Apply for Intern Credential
- Once you have been approved for the Intern Pathway and accepted a job offer, the Intern Coordinator will provide you with an Intern Memo.
- The Intern Memo must be submitted to San José State University’s Credential Services Office along with all items listed on the Single Subject Intern Credential Checklist [pdf]. Credential Services will process all submitted items and submit your intern credential application to the Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC).
- Please allow anywhere between 2 to 4 weeks for the CTC to issue you the intern credential. The CTC will provide you with an email about next steps once your intern credential has been processed.
- Once you have received your intern credential, please notify your school district and the intern coordinator.
Program Requirements and Disclosures
1. Positions must be in a public school with a partnering district in our primary
service area of Santa Clara County. Interns must be hired as the teacher of record
(long-term sub or temporary positions do not qualify).
2. Intern positions must be approved before a candidate accepts an intern position
from a district. Districts/schools must ensure the availability an onsite support
provider (mentor) who meets these guidelines [pdf].
3. Teaching positions must meet specific intern and subject-matter requirements--SSCP [pdf].
4.University supervisor availability in the subject-area must be established before
an intern position is approved.
5. Positions must be in a public school with a partnering district in our primary
service area in Santa Clara County. Interns must be hired as the teacher of record
(long-term sub or temporary positions do not qualify).
6. Phase I candidates must commit to the intern pathway by designated dates (see above).
Once approved for the intern pathway, candidates will not be placed for student-teaching
for the subsequent semester. If they do not obtain an intern position, their program
will be delayed. *Please note that most districts do not hire interns until late July
or early August.
7. Candidates who commit to a student-teaching placement may not switch to the intern
track.
8. In addition to fulfilling intern program responsibilities outlined in the Intern
Agreement Form, interns are required to fulfill all single subject credential program
requirements and remain in good standing in the program (with a minimum cumulative
GPA OF 3.0 and no less than a B in the methods course).
9. Interns who exhibit dispositions contrary to the program’s goals and mission, and/or
do not demonstrate competence in teaching according the CA Teacher Performance Expectations
may be required to exit the intern program.
10. To qualify or continue as a Phase 2 Intern (184Y/Z), you must submit CalTPA Cycle
1 by the given due dates at the end of semester three (or the planned semester given
your course roadmap). Failure to submit your CalTPA in the planned semester may result
in removal from the intern program and an extension of your timeline to apply for
your credential.
11. As noted on the Intern Program Policy form [pdf], the intern certificate for candidates in the Single Subject Credential Program is
valid for a period of up to two years. Intern candidates must be enrolled in an appropriate
fieldwork/supervision course in the related program each semester while employed under
the intern credential. Upon completion of the program, the Intern Credential will
be automatically withdrawn 45 days after the last day of instruction of the semester.
Program Partners
These are our current program partners. [pdf]