Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/teachered/academics/pk-3/pathways_options.php
Title: Pathways + Options
Type: HTML

Pathways + Options
The PK-3 Credential Program offers different options for a customized pathway!
In most cases, candidates may combine options to customize a pathway that best fit their needs. Click on a program pathway or option below to learn more!
Pathways
Traditional
On the traditional PK-3 Credential Program pathway, full-time teacher candidates complete three semesters of coursework. Part-time schedules are available for candidates who prefer to take fewer courses per semester, over four or more semesters.
In-person courses meet on campus in the evenings (4:00pm on). See the Coursework page for course descriptions.
Fieldwork and student teaching experiences are embedded throughout the program. These include supervised semester-long student teaching placements in a Pre-Kindergarten/Transitional Kindergarten classroom and in a Kindergarten through Third Grade Classroom. See the Student Teaching page for more detail, as well as for options to apply for clinical practice equivalency based on your qualifying prior preschool teaching and/or early childhood practicum course experience.
Teacher Residency
The TK/K-SJSU Teacher Residency Program partners with local school districts where candidates complete student teaching in a year-long placement. It is possible to simultaneously enroll in the Bilingual Authorization in Spanish and/or Master Degree in Teaching (MAT) options. A stipend will be provided to candidates who are accepted into the program after admissions. The stipend is designed to cover program tuition, books, and fees.
Requirements:
1. Student teaching during Fall 2026 & Spring 2027 semester
2. Enrollment in SJSU's PK-3 or Multiple Subjects Credential Program
3. Residents complete the same coursework requirements as do candidates on the traditional
pathway.
Teacher Residency Program Partner School Districts:
Mount Pleasant Elementary School District
Alum Rock Union School District
Campbell Union School District
Evergreen Elementary School District
Berryessa Union School District
Intern Pathway
The PK-3 ECE Specialist Instruction intern pathway program is designed for individuals who have successful prior experience with lead-teaching in a PK-3 classroom and who seek an alternative route to earning their preliminary PK-3 credential. The Intern pathway program provides qualified candidates who are offered a teaching position an opportunity to complete the credential program as a contracted (paid) teacher under an Internship Credential.
*Please note that the term “intern” refers to the type of credential the candidate will be issued. This is not an internship in the traditional sense, the potential candidate will need to secure their own employment as a teacher of record–SJSU does not assist with this process. Intern candidates receive support from a university field supervisor and an on-site coach from the school while completing their credential coursework.
Options
Summer, Fall, and Spring Start Dates
-Summer: Starts in June, 5 to 10-week summer sessions
-Fall: Starts mid-August, 15 week sessions
Bilingual Authorization
Successfully completing this program alongside the teaching credential authorizes the holder for bilingual instruction in a dual-immersion classroom. Click here for more information about the Bilingual Authorization pathway. Apply for this program option at the same time that you submit your application to the PK-3 credential program through CalState Apply.