Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/teachered/academics/residency.php
Title: Teacher Residency Pathway
Type: HTML

Teacher Residency Pathway
NOTE: Applications are OPEN for the 2026-2027 academic year.
Overview
Ideal for local candidates who want to learn to teach and start their career in a district nearby, our Teacher Residency Pathway is a year-long student teaching placement at a single school site and enables residents to:
- Learn to teach and launch your career in the SJSU service area
- Receive a stipend up to $35,000
- Finish the credential program in 13 months (Summer start)
- Develop yearlong relationships with your students
- Work with the same mentor teacher for the year and become immersed in the school, district and community culture
- Access priority job interviews and hiring in your placement district or affiliated districts, district support for four years as your career develops
- Receive district support for four years as your career develops
2026-2027 Cohort Information
Have a bachelor's and need to apply?
Apply to a San Jose State credential program via CalState Apply.
Note: you must be accepted into the credential program prior to applying to the residency pathway.Questions about applying?
Email luriecollege-teacherresidency@sjsu.edu
Residency Program Coordinators:
Multiple Subject/Single Subject: Luis Poza, luis.poza@sjsu.edu
PK-3: Maria Fusaro, maria.fusaro@sjsu.edu
SPED: Lisa Simpson: lisa.simpson@sjsu.edu
Apply to a San Jose State credential program and complete a supplemental application. Applicants will follow with an interview with potential host district(s) for placements. Program pathways that facilitate eligibility include full-time coursework beginning in spring (3-semester option) or summer (one-year option) and part-time coursework beginning in the fall (two-year option). During the fall and spring residency semesters, students continue to take a full-time load of credential and/or Master's courses.
Each residency pathway includes a credential focus and has tailored professional development support for both teacher residents and their mentors. See below for program options and participating districts. Click each for a full description and advising contacts:
Multiple Subjects Credential (Grades K-8, with or without Bilingual Authorization)
Finish in 13 months with Summer Start Registration for students not already in the program. Apply on or before February 1st.
Teacher candidates enrolled in the Multiple Subject Credential Program (MS), with or without participating in the Critical (Spanish) Bilingual Authorization Program (CBAP), are eligible to become teacher residents if they are scheduled to student teach during consecutive fall and spring semesters. Therefore, full-time candidates who are admitted to the MS/CBAP in the spring or summer may apply to become MS/CBAP teacher residents. Accelerated pathway option (Summer-Fall-Spring).
MS/CBAP teacher residents will be placed in one of our partner school districts: Alum Rock, Campbell Union, or Milpitas Unified. Together with their mentor teachers, residents participate in monthly professional development (PD) that centers an emancipatory approach to district instructional priorities, such as assets-based approaches to math and literacy instruction that integrate content learning and language development.
As is the case with all SJSU teacher residents, MS/CBAP teacher residents are placed with a mentor teacher for the entire school year and follow the calendar of their host district–from district and school PD before the school year begins, to setting up the classroom with their mentor, and experiencing the first and last days of the school year. MS/CBAP teacher residents receive funding to cover their tuition costs, books, fees, and provide a stipend. In return, MS/CBAP teacher residents will commit to teaching within one of the partner districts for four years after graduation.
Download the flyer here [pdf].
Participating Districts: Milpitas Unified, Campbell Union, Alum Rock Union, and Redwood City Unified.
For more information, contact Luis Poza, luis.poza@sjsu.edu
Education Specialist (Special Education Credential)
Education Specialist (Special Education Credential) – Oak Grove School District, Campbell Union, Milpitas Unified and Sunnyvale Elementary School District.
Education Specialist Residents complete our Education Specialist Credential program
on an accelerated pathway (Summer – Fall – Spring)
Receive priority registration in courses with other residents
Education Specialist Residents complete a year-long field placement (student teaching)
in a residency school with a mentor teacher.
Education Specialist Residents participate in activities at the school site following
the residency school calendar with other SJSU Residents.
Residency grants covers all tuition costs and includes a stipend of $5,000. You might also qualify to be paid as a para-professional.
Receive priority job interviews for teaching positions in the residency district upon
completion of the program.
Contact: Lisa Simpson: lisa.simpson@sjsu.edu
Download the Ed Specialist Supplemental Residency Application here
Participating Districts: Oak Grove School District, Campbell Union, Milpitas Unified and Sunnyvale Elementary School District.
Transitional Kindergarten/Kindergarten Focus with PK-3 ECE Credential or Multiple Subjects Credential
As part of California’s Universal PreKindergarten (UPK) initiative, families with four-year-olds now have the opportunity to enroll their child in Transitional Kindergarten (TK). The TK/K Teacher Residency program partners with local districts to prepare early childhood educators to engage young children in equitable, culturally sustaining, multilingual, developmentally appropriate, and inclusive learning in grades PK to 3.
SJSU TK/K Residents will be paired with experienced TK - 3rd grade mentor teachers in one of five partner school districts: Mount Pleasant Elementary, Alum Rock Union, Evergreen, Berryessa Union School District, and Campbell Union School District.
As a TK/K Resident, you will become immersed in the school community from the very first day of their school year. You will student-teach alongside your mentor teacher and engage in professional development with your mentor and other TK/K residents, all working to support the learning and holistic development of San Jose’s culturally and linguistically diverse students.
Participants selected for the TK/K Residency program will receive grant funding (approximately $30,000) during the school year. Participating districts with hiring needs may extend a job offer to residents who successfully complete the program.
The SJSU TK/K Residency Program is open for applications for the 2026-2027 school year. Credential candidates who are early-childhood focused, accepted into the PK-3 ECE Credential Program or Multiple Subject Credential program, and eligible for AY26-27 student teaching are encouraged to apply! This Residency Program is open to candidates with or without the added Bilingual Authorization. To apply, complete this supplemental application by April 20, 2026; interviews will take place in late April to May 2026. For questions, email maria.fusaro@sjsu.edu
Participating Districts: Mount Pleasant Elementary School District (MPESD), Alum Rock School District (ARSD), Berryessa Union School District (BUSD), Evergreen Elementary School District (EESD), Campbell Union School District (CUSD).
Ethnic Studies/Multiple Subjects (with or without Bilingual Authorization) or Single Subject Social Studies with Ethnic Studies or English focus
Ethnic Studies helps students connect with their power by highlighting the strengths
in their personal, community, and cultural backgrounds. Our SJSU Ethnic Studies Residency
Pathway (ESRP) pairs teacher candidates with dynamic mentor teachers in East Side
Union High School District (ESUHSD), Franklin-McKinley School District (FMSD), and
Mt. Pleasant Elementary School District (MPESD) at Overfelt High School with a commitment
to being transformative educators. Additionally, through ongoing, practice-based professional
development rooted in residents’ curriculum and experiences in their student teaching
placements, the ESRP supports residents and their mentors in cultivating the mindsets,
knowledge, and skills to turn their classrooms into spaces of solidarity and liberation.
The ESRP is open to SJSU Multiple Subject Credential candidates (for placement in FMSD or MPESD) and History/Social Science Single Subject Credential candidates (for placement in ESUHSD teaching either Ethnic Studies classes or US/World History classes through an Ethnic Studies lens). To be eligible to participate in the ESRP, candidates must complete student teaching in consecutive Fall and Spring semesters. The ESRP can be completed in conjunction with the Bilingüismo y Justicia Bilingual Authorization program.
For more information, email Prof. Luis Poza at luis.poza@sjsu.edu
Participating Districts: Eastside Union High School District, Franklin McKinley District, and Mount Pleasant Elementary District.
Steps to Apply
Currently accepting applications for the Fall 2026 cohort. Applicants that are not current students in the MS or SS credential program must be accepted into the credential program to begin their coursework in Summer 2026 in order to qualify for a Fall 2026 start in the Teacher Residency Program.
- If you want to learn more about becoming a Teacher Resident, contact luriecollege-teacherresidency@sjsu.edu
- Office Phone: 408-924-2300
- Complete our Teacher Residency Supplementary Application Google Form for your program of interest (if applications are open).
Apply to a Program
- Cal State Apply | CSU
- Important: You must apply and be accepted to a credential program prior to applying to this
pathway.
- Multiple Subject / Elementary Education Credential program (TK, K-8 with or with bilingual authorization)
- Single Subject / Secondary Education Credential program (Social Studies or English with focus on Ethnic Studies)
- PK-3 ECE Specialist Instruction Credential program (Age 3 to Grade 3 with or without bilingual authorization)
- Credential Programs | Special Education (Early Childhood, Mild to Moderate, or Moderate to Severe)
Residency Advising
Join us for virtual advising hours!
Residency Program Coordinators:
Multiple Subject/Single Subject: Luis Poza, luis.poza@sjsu.edu or Luis' You Can Book Me
PK-3 ECE: Maria Fusaro, maria.fusaro@sjsu.edu
Special Education: Lisa Simpson: lisa.simpson@sjsu.edu