Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/teachered/academics/mmle.php
Title: MA Multilingual and Multicultural Literacy Education
Type: HTML

MA Multilingual and Multicultural Literacy Education
Apply here by May 1, 2026 to get your CA Reading Specialist Added Authorization, CA Reading Specialist and Literacy Leadership Credential, or MA in Multilingual and Multicultural Literacy Education! Fully online! Watch some of our program graduates describe what they learned.
The CA Reading Specialist Added Authorization is two-semesters (four courses) with a focus on TK-12th grade literacy instruction. Upon completion, you will be authorized work at schools as a literacy specialist or interventionist at the grades levels authorized by your credential.
Domestic application deadline: May 1, 2026
International application deadline: April 1, 2026
| Semester 1 | Semester 2 |
|---|---|
| EDTE 216, Culturally Responsive Assessment for Instruction, 4 units | EDTE 215, Culturally & linguistically sustaining literacy instruction, 4 units |
| EDTE 217A, Practicum: Culturally Responsive Assessment for Instruction, 2 units | EDTE 217B, Culturally & linguistically sustaining literacy instruction, 2 units |
The CA Reading Specialist and Literacy Leadership Credential is a five-semester (including summer) program that prepares completers to be literacy specialists, coaches, or work at district and county levels in grades twelve and below, including preschool, and in classes primarily for adults. In addition to the courses above, participants take:
| Semester 3 | Semester 4 | Semester 5 |
|---|---|---|
| EDTE 223, Politics, Theory and Practice of Critical Literacy Instruction | EDTE 220, Advanced Critical Literacy Instruction | EDTE 245, Assessment & Instruction for Culturally Sustaining Literacy Leadership |
| EDTE 290C, Critical Research Methods | EDTE 242R, Practicum: Advanced Critical Literacy Instruction | EDTE 212, Practicum: Critical Literacy Leadership |
The CA Reading Specialist and Literacy Leadership Credential is embedded in the Multilingual
and Multicultural Literacy Education (MMLE) MA, a fully online master’s program focused on culturally and linguistically sustaining literacy practices.
It combines the technical aspects of literacy instruction (e.g., foundational skills) with multilingual and social justice lenses. Candidates learn to center the needs
of traditionally marginalized students and build on their cultural and linguistic
wealth.Completers are eligible for both the MA and the Credential upon graduation.
Questions?: contact Dr. Allison Briceno at allison.briceno@sjsu.edu
- Program Overview
- Program Learning Outcomes
- Initial Eligibility and Requirements
- Upcoming Information Sessions
- Steps to Apply
- MMLE Faculty
- Additional Student Resources
Program Overview
- Official Title: Multilingual and Multicultural Literacy, MA
- Format: Part-time, online, evening, cohort, year-round
- Units: 30
- Start date: Fall 2026
- Program length: 2 years / 5 semesters
Initial Eligibility and Requirements
- Completion of the CalState Apply application
- Statement of Purpose:
In about 2 double-spaced pages, please explain:
-
Why you are applying to the Multilingual & Multicultural Literacy MA program and what you hope to get out of it
-
What literacy means to you
-
Your experience teaching literacy, especially to underserved populations such as multilingual students and student with IEPs
-
Whether you are seeking the Reading Specialist Added Authorization (first 12 units/4 classes) or the Reading and Literacy Leadership Credential (all 30 units) or neither
-
- Official transcripts, including B.A./B.S. and teaching credential if the applicant has a credential
- Resume
- 2 professional letters of recommendations
- GPA Minimum: 2.5
- Candidates interested in the Reading and Literacy Leadership Specialist or Added Authorization are also required to meet the following requirements as specified by CTC (leaflet CL-537): 1) hold a valid teaching credential, 2) possess an English Learner Authorization, 3) verification of three years of successful full-time teaching experience, and 4) verification of Basic Skills Requirement if not previously met. Upon completion of the MMLE program and RLAA/RLLS requirements, candidates may apply for the credential through the Credential Services Office.
Upcoming Information Sessions
Candidates interested in the MMLE Program should attend an information session to learn helpful information about program options, admission requirements, and the application process.
Steps to Apply
Step 1 | Begin your Cal State Apply application
Visit calstate.edu/apply to create your SJSU application profile and pay the $70 application fee.
Step 2 | Submit your transcripts
Request one official transcript from each college/university where you studied and have them mailed directly from each college/university to the SJSU Graduate Admissions office at:
Graduate Admissions and Program Evaluations
San Jose State University
One Washington Square
San Jose, CA 95192-0017
If the college/university provides official electronic transcripts, the institution can email the transcripts to etranscript@sjsu.edu or graduate@sjsu.edu. Questions pertaining to transcripts, GPA calculations, and application fees should be directed to admissions@sjsu.edu.
MMLE Faculty
Allison Briceño, Ph.D.
MA Program Coordinator / Associate Professor
allison.briceno@sjsu.edu
Jolynn Asato, Ph.D.
Professor
Sweeney Hall 341
408 924-3638
jolynn.asato@sjsu.edu
David Whitenack, Ph.D.
Professor
408 924-3736
david.whitenack@sjsu.edu
Additional Student Resources
For information about financial aid opportunities, internship and job opportunities, research opportunities, and more, visit our Student Resources web page.