Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/teachered/academics/mscpintern.php
Title: Multiple Subject Credential Program Intern Pathway
Type: HTML

Multiple Subject Credential Program Intern Pathway
- Overview
- Eligibility
- Steps to Apply for Intern Pathway
- Deadlines
- Apply for Intern Credential
- Program Requirements and Disclosures
- Program Partners
Overview
The Multiple Subjects Intern Pathway Program is designed for individuals who have successful prior experience with lead-teaching in a K-8 classroom and seek an alternative route to earning their preliminary credential. The Intern pathway program provides qualified candidates who are offered a teaching position an opportunity to complete the credential program as a contracted (paid) teacher under an Internship Credential. Please note that the term “intern” refers to the type of credential the candidate will be issued. This is not an internship in the traditional sense; the potential candidate will need to secure their own employment as a teacher of record. SJSU does not assist with this process. Intern candidates receive support from a university field supervisor and an on-site support provider from the school while completing their credential coursework.
The intern pathway program is designed for individuals in one of the following contexts:
1. Candidates who have completed student teaching phase one and are scheduled to complete their final phase of student teaching and have been offered a teaching position by a partnering school district in the program’s primary service area. Candidates who transition to the intern program at this point will complete the program over 1-2 additional semesters, depending on MA options. Those who are pursuing the MA will complete their final MA project in the semester after completing the credential program.
- View our Sample MS Intern Program Course Sequence Model [pdf] for those who have already completed phase 1 of student teaching.
- View our Sample MS Intern Program Course Sequence Model [pdf] for those who have not completed phase 1 student teaching
2. Incoming teacher candidates who have not completed student teaching phase one, but have successful long-term lead-teaching experience, and who are teaching on contract for a school district or have been offered a position by a district. Candidates must take pre-intern coursework (see courses needed under the “Eligibility” section), which is offered during the summer, to satisfy intern pre-service requirements prior to entering the intern program pathway. This is a 4-5 semester program of study, depending on MA options. Candidates will work with the Program Advisor/Coordinator to adjust their course roadmaps.
- View our Sample MS Intern Program Course Sequence Model [pdf] for those who have already completed phase 1 of student teaching.
- View our Sample MS Intern Program Course Sequence Model [pdf] for those who have not completed phase 1 student teaching.
Eligibility
In order to be eligible to apply for the intern pathway program, applicants must:
- Must hold a baccalaureate degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution of higher education.
- Meet all admission criteria and deadlines for the Multiple Subject Credential Program, including the corresponding Subject Matter Competency requirements, as well as the U.S. Constitution prior to qualifying for an intern credential.
- While not required to qualify for an intern credential, prior to beginning their intern placement, interns will need to meet the TB requirement.
Pre-Service Requirement
- Must successfully complete the following pre-requisite courses prior to being accepted into the intern pathway: EDTE 262 (multilingual learners), EDTE 224 (educational psychology); EDTE 294 (health/special education). Descriptions of these courses are available on the SJSU Catalog website.
Bilingual Language Proficiency (Mandarin and Spanish)
- Mandarin Candidates for the Internship program who are authorized to teach in Mandarin
bilingual classrooms are required to demonstrate proficiency in Mandarin and pass
Subtest III of the Mandarin CSET (aka as Mandarin LOTE III) or have a degree in Mandarin
from an accredited institution of higher education or have a degree from a Mandarin-speaking
institution.
- Candidates for the Internship program who are authorized to teach in Spanish bilingual
classrooms are required to demonstrate proficiency in Spanish and pass Subtest III
of the Spanish CSET (aka as Spanish LOTE III) or have a degree in Spanish from an
accredited institution of higher education or have a degree from a Spanish-speaking
institution.
Apply for the Intern Pathway
1. If you have not yet applied to the Multiple Subjects Credential Program, please follow all instructions on the Admissions webpage to submit your application
to the university and program.
2. Complete and submit this Multiple Subject Credential Program Intern Interest Application
Note: You may submit this form while you are in the process of applying to the university
and MSCP Program. Once accepted into the MSCP, then you can continue with additional
application items specific to the intern program.
Conventional Intern Teaching Candidates
(Completing/Completed Phase I Student Teaching) Application Process
- After completing the Multiple Subject Credential Program Intern Interest Application [pdf], you will be added to a canvas course for Multiple Subject Intern Credential candidates.
You will upload the following to the canvas course:
- EDEL 143A mid-semester check in form completed by your supervisor
- Employment Offer (if already received job offer)
- Support Provider Documentation (if already received job offer)
- Once you have uploaded these materials, you will schedule a 30 minute interview
with the Multiple Subject Intern Coordinator. Please allow for one week after uploading
your materials to schedule an interview.
- Candidates must also successfully pass Phase I Student Teaching for intern pathway
approval to be finalized. Feedback and grades from the applicant's current professors
will also be reviewed before approval can be finalized.
Early Teaching Candidates (Have not enrolled in Phase I Student Teaching)
- If you have not taken (or are not currently taking) Phase 1 Student-Teaching, you
will need to complete the Multiple Subject Credential Program Intern Interest Application [pdf]. You will then be added to a canvas course for Multiple Subject Intern Credential
candidates. You will upload the following to the canvas course:
- 2 page, double-spaced personal statement
- A 5-15 minute video of you teaching
- One Letter of recommendation from someone who has seen you teach (e.g., principal,
coach, mentor teacher)
- Employment Offer (if already received a job offer)
- Support Provider document (if already received a job offer)
- Once you have uploaded these materials, you will schedule a 30 minute interview
with the Multiple Subject Intern Coordinator.
- Please allow for one week after uploading your materials to schedule an interview
- Feedback and grades from the applicant's current professors will also be reviewed
before approval can be finalized.
Early Completion
- Information about this option is provided here [pdf]. Candidates who pursue this option will complete the intern field experience requirements
(two semesters of 184Y and/or Z) and take the seminars (EDSC 153, EDTE 297C, and subject-specific
seminar) that support them in their field experience and completion of the teacher
performance assessment. Candidates considering this option must meet with the Intern
Coordinator to discuss the details of this option.
- Teaching positions must meet specific intern and subject-matter requirements. University
supervisor availability in the subject-area must also be established before an intern
position is approved.
Deadlines
- To be considered for the intern pathway for the Spring 2026 semester, all intern pathway application items must be submitted by November 14, 2025.
- To be considered for the intern pathway for the Fall 2026 semester, all intern pathway application items must be submitted by April 17, 2026.
Apply for your Intern Credential
- Once you have been approved for the Intern Pathway and accepted a job offer, the
Intern Coordinator will provide you with an Intern Memo.
- The Intern Memo must be submitted to San José State University’s Credential Services
Office along with all items listed on the Multiple Subject Intern Credential Checklist [pdf]. Credential Services will process all submitted items and submit your intern credential
application to the Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC).
- Please allow anywhere between 2 to 4 weeks for the CTC to issue you the intern credential.
The CTC will provide you with an email about next steps once your intern credential
has been processed.
- Once you have received your intern credential, please notify your school district
and the intern coordinator.
Program Requirements and Disclosures
1. The intern pathway program does not secure a teaching position for students. Candidates
must have an offer from a partnering school district for a paid teaching position
(letters of intent to hire by districts will be considered).
2. Intern positions must be approved before a candidate accepts an intern position
from a district.
- Being given a job offer does not automatically qualify someone for the Multiple
Subject Intern Program. Candidates are still required to go through the application
process whether they have received a job offer from a district or not.
3. Please note that positions at private schools are not accepted for the intern pathway
program. Positions at Charter schools will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, but
have a high likelihood of not being accepted. Reasons why a charter school may be
rejected:
a. They are not Common Core State Standards aligned
b. Student is not teaching multiple subjects (e.g., only teaching ELA)
c. Student does not have the opportunity to develop lesson plans rather they
must adhere strictly to a prescribed curriculum
4. Teaching positions must meet specific intern and subject-matter requirements--MSCP [pdf].
5. Positions must be in a public school with a partnering district in our primary
service area in Santa Clara County. Interns must be hired as the teacher of record
(long-term sub or temporary positions do not qualify).
6. Phase I candidates must commit to the intern pathway by designated dates (see above).
Once approved for the intern pathway, candidates will not be placed for student-teaching
for the subsequent semester. If they do not obtain an intern position, their program
will be delayed. *Please note that most districts do not hire interns until late July
or early August.
7. Candidates who commit to a student-teaching placement may not switch to the intern
track.
8. Interns are required to fulfill all multiple subject credential program requirements
and remain in good standing in the program (with a minimum cumulative GPA OF 3.0 and
no less than a B in the methods course).
9. Interns who exhibit dispositions contrary to the program’s goals and mission, and/or
do not demonstrate competence in teaching according the CA Teacher Performance Expectations
may be required to exit the intern program.
10. To qualify or continue as a Phase 2 Intern (143B), you must submit CalTPA Cycle
1 by the given due dates at the end of semester three (or the planned semester given
your course roadmap). Failure to submit your CalTPA in the planned semester may result
in removal from the intern program and an extension of your timeline to apply for
your credential.
Program Partners
These are our current program partners [pdf].