Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/teachered/academics/cbap.php
Title: Critical Bilingual Authorization
Type: HTML

Critical Bilingual Authorization
The Critical Bilingual Authorization Program (CBAP) in the Lurie College of Education at San José State University (SJSU) prepares PK–3 ECE, Multiple Subject, Single Subject, and Education Specialist teacher candidates and credential holders to earn a Bilingual Authorization to serve in dual immersion and bilingual settings across California.
What You'll Experience
CBAP offers a comprehensive program that combines foundations + methods coursework and add-on bilingual courses focused on language teaching methods and culture (Spanish and Mandarin). Candidates complete supported clinical experiences with expert bilingual mentor teachers and engage in learning aligned to Bilingual Teacher Performance Expectations (BTPEs). Vietnamese coursework is available through the Asian Language BTEP Consortium in partnership with CSU Fullerton.
To learn more about the Critical Bilingual Authorization Program, Bilingüismo y Justicia (Spanish), please contact bernadette.rodriguez@sjsu.edu.
To learn more about the Critical Bilingual Authorization Program (Mandarin/Vietnamese), please contact nuo.xu@sjsu.edu.
Learn More about Spanish CBAP [pdf]
Learn More about Mandarin/Vietnamese CBAP [pdf]
Grant and Scholarship Opportunities
- Bilingual Authorization in an Asian Language: Currently there are CSU grants that
could pay for your credential program (up to 20k). Don't miss this scholarship opportunity! We will support you to apply.
- Bilingual Authorization in Spanish: CBAP Spanish Candidates may apply for the
following SJSU scholarships:
- Dr. Hector and Catalina Garcia Graduate Endowed Scholarship
- SJSU - Bilingüismo y Justicia (formerly the Glickbarg) scholarship; contact
the Spanish CBAP Coordinator for more information.
Apply for Admissions
Applying is straightforward—choose your pathway and follow the steps below.
If you’re applying to an SJSU credential program (PK–3 ECE, Multiple Subject, Single
Subject, or Education Specialist)
1. Apply through Cal State Apply and check the Bilingual Authorization option.
2. Per Cal State Apply, submit an English language essay.
3. After completing the English language essay, also complete an additional essay
in the language you wish to teach. The essay prompt is - “Why I want to be a bilingual
teacher.”
Spanish: write the essay in Spanish
Mandarin: write the essay in Mandarin
Vietnamese: write the essay in English
4. After you submit your application, you’ll be interviewed by the Bilingual
Authorization coordinators (language and program fit).
Options+Pathways
Choose the option that fits your teaching goals and language background:
Becoming a Bilingual Teacher — Spanish
CBAP supports future bilingual educators with coursework and field experiences designed
for dual immersion/bilingual classrooms.
Becoming a Bilingual Teacher — Mandarin/Vietnamese
CBAP offers a Mandarin option at SJSU and Vietnamese coursework through the Asian Language BTEP Consortium/CSU Fullerton partnership.
Important (Vietnamese applicants)
- SJSU does not recommend Vietnamese bilingual authorization. Vietnamese CBAP candidates complete coursework through CSU Fullerton, and CSU Fullerton recommends the authorization.
For credential holders adding the authorization
Submit your completed bilingual authorization application to the SJSU credential office:
credentials@sjsu.edu
CSET Requirements
To demonstrate language proficiency, candidates may use:
- CSET Subtest III (Spanish, Mandarin or Vietnamese), or
- Additional Resource: CSET III Test Guide [pdf]
- Exceptions to the CSET III, per the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing are:
1. Teachers who hold a valid, non-emergency California Single Subject or Standard
Secondary Teaching Credential with a major in a language other than English need not
take Test II or III of the CSET: World Languages Exam to qualify for a bilingual authorization
in that language.
2. Teachers who hold a three-year or higher degree from a foreign institution in which all instruction is delivered in a language other than English also do not need to take Test II or III to qualify for a bilingual authorization in that language. The foreign institution must be equivalent in status to a regionally-accredited institution of higher education in the United States.
Coursework
CBAP coursework builds strong foundations in cultural awareness, linguistic diversity,
critical consciousness, and BTPE-aligned bilingual teaching practices.
Spanish coursework highlights (in-person)
- EDTE 208B: Bilingual Educational Sociology (3 units)
- EDTE 262B: Classroom Issues in Language/Literacy Development of Emergent Bilinguals (3 units)
-These courses are revisited in a two-semester bilingual seminar sequence connected
to field placements.
Mandarin coursework highlights (online)
- EDTE 208M: Culture, Education, and Power for Mandarin-English Bilinguals (3 units)
- EDTE 262M: Language Methods and Equity for Mandarin-English Bilinguals (3 units)
BTPE teaching standards
Students outside SJSU (including those currently enrolled at another CSU) may take CBAP coursework through SJSU Open University.
Student Teaching/Mini-Placement
Single-Subject and Education Specialists candidates who are not in a Spanish language setting, receive a two week “mini-placement” in which they complete:
- 20 hours of field experience required for the bilingual authorization and are supported by a bilingual mentor teacher.
- Candidates also receive related support within the bilingual seminar, when
applicable.
Interns secure the 20 hours of field experience required for the bilingual authorization through an Individualized Plan designed in collaboration with the program’s bilingual coordinator.
All candidates regardless of program (PK–3 ECE, Multiple Subject, Single Subject, or Education Specialist) need to pass the CSET III, except secondary candidates who earned a BA in Spanish or earned a BA from a Spanish speaking country.
See below for official language from the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing.
- Bilingual Authorizations (CL-628b)
Teachers who hold a valid, non-emergency California Single Subject or Standard Secondary Teaching Credential with a major in a language other than English need not take Test II or III of the CSET: World Languages Exam to qualify for a bilingual authorization in that language. Teachers who hold a three-year or higher degree from a foreign institution in which all instruction is delivered in a language other than English also do not need to take Test II or III to qualify for a bilingual authorization in that language. The foreign institution must be equivalent in status to a regionally-accredited institution of higher education in the United States.
Post Credential Bilingual Authorization Courses: Mandarin or Spanish
Add a bilingual authorization to your teaching credential. Whether you have the credential
already or you are in the process of obtaining it, getting a bilingual authorization
and being able to teach your subject matter bilingually will take your professional
satisfaction to a new level. Further, it will dramatically increase your potential
to be hired, whether in a bilingual or an English context because it prepares you
to embrace California´s linguistic and cultural diversity. Last but not least, it
will support you in getting community impact and opening new ways for excellence and
equity. Bilingüismo y Justicia´s authorization program will be there to learn with
and from you along the way.
For more information, please contact program coordinators:
- For Spanish: bernadette.rodriguez@sjsu.edu
- For Mandarin and Vietnamese: nuo.xu@sjsu.edu
Upcoming Info Sessions
Click the RSVP button to see a list of upcoming dates. For Applicants interested in the bilingual pathway, see below.
Bilingüismo y Justicia pushes the envelope
Listen to Lurie College faculty Luis Poza and Eduardo Muñoz-Muñoz discuss Bilingüismo y Justicia in further detail in our Innovations Podcast below.
Contact Us
To learn more about the Critical Bilingual Authorization Program, please contact teacher-education@sjsu.edu.