Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/titleixeo/index.php
Title: Office for Title IX and Equal Opportunity
Type: HTML

Reporting an Incident
If you or someone you know has experienced discrimination, harassment, or retaliation based on a protected status (including age, disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, and veteran or military status), we encourage you to file a report or contact the Office for Title IX and Equal Opportunity for resources and assistance. This also includes experiences related to sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, sexual exploitation, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, and pregnancy and parenting discrimination.
Resources
Title IX at SJSU
SJSU’s Statement of Nondiscrimination
The University is dedicated to the principles of equal opportunity and non-discrimination. These principles permeate all facets of university life: in the admission, housing and education of students; in policies and practices governing programs of extracurricular life and activities; and in the employment of faculty, staff, and students. Discrimination of any kind, including, but not limited to age, ancestry, color, creed, disability, marital status, medical condition, national origin, pregnancy, race, religion, sex, or sexual orientation, is an affront to the entire university community and is strictly prohibited.
SJSU’s Title IX Statement of Nondiscrimination
SJSU is committed to maintaining an inclusive community that values diversity and fosters tolerance and mutual respect. SJSU does not discriminate, and does not tolerate discrimination, on the basis of sex or gender, which includes gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation or sex stereotype in its education programs or activities. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and certain other federal and state laws, prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex in employment, as well as in all education programs and activities operated by the university (both on and off campus). The protection against discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation includes sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and dating and domestic violence, and stalking.
What are the Protected Statuses?
Please contact us if you want to discuss a problem or need to make a report relating to discrimination on the basis of a legally protected status, harassment based on the basis of a legally protected status, sexual misconduct or sexual harassment, or retaliation because of your opposition to any such conduct, or your participation in an inquiry or investigation relating to discrimination or harassment.
Protected statuses, as listed in the CSU Nondiscrimination Policy, and identified under California and United States law, are:
Age
Disability (physical and mental)
Gender (or sex, including sex stereotyping)
Gender Identity (including transgender)
Gender Expression
Genetic Information
Marital Status
Medical Condition
Nationality
Pregnancy or Parenting Concerns
Race or Ethnicity (including color, caste, or ancestry)
Religion (or religious creed)
Sexual Orientation, and
Veteran or Military Status.
This website provides more information about reporting and available resources, or you can contact us directly.