Source: https://www.sjsu.edu/visit/silicon-valley.php
Title: Silicon Valley
Type: HTML

Silicon Valley
San José Information
City of San José
San José's official site, offering community information, services and programs.
Visit San José
The official travel and visitors guide to events, lodging and attractions.
San José Downtown Association
SJDA represents more than 2,000 businesses, non-profits and property-owners who work
collaboratively to enhance the Downtown experience.
News Publications
Mercury News
The leading source of breaking news, local news, sports, business, entertainment,
lifestyle and opinion for San José and beyond.
Local Attractions
History San José
History San José preserves and enriches the cultural heritage of San José and the
Santa Clara Valley through research, collections, partnerships, educational programs
and events.
Santana Row
Discover Silicon Valley's premier destination for shopping, dining, living and more.
With over 70 shops, 20 restaurants - all within a 20 minute bus ride from SJSU.
San José Museum of Art
The San José Museum of Art celebrates new ideas, stimulates creativity and inspires
connection with every visit.
Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum
The Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum is an educational institution that uses trans-disciplinary
approaches to increasing knowledge about the past, present and future.
The Tech Museum of Innovation
The Tech Museum of Innovation is a family-friendly interactive science and technology
center. It has become a landmark for visitors seeking a glimpse of the most inventive
place on earth—Silicon Valley.
Winchester Mystery House
The Winchester Mystery House is a mansion that was once the personal residence of
Sarah Winchester, the widow of firearm magnate William Wirt Winchester.
SAP Center
The SAP Center is the premier sports and entertainment venue in Northern California.
Home to the San José Sharks and the San José Barracuda and concerts year-round.
PayPal Park
PayPal Park is the home of Major League Soccer's San José Earthquakes and National
Women's Soccer League's Bay FC.
Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk
The Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk is recognized as a vibrant, bustling amusement park,
renowned for its great rides, remarkable history, spectacular beach setting and friendly
attitude.
Performing Arts
San José Improv
The San José Improv delivers a mix of A-list comedy, food and cocktails within a historical
theater setting.
Opera San José
Founded by SJSU alumna Irene Dalis, Opera San José is a professional, regional opera
company specializing in showcasing the finest professional singers in the nation.
Hammer Theatre
Hammer Theatre serves the San José community through high-quality programming expressive
of the unique characteristics and diverse cultures of Silicon Valley.
Sporting Events
San José Earthquakes
The San Jose Earthquakes are an American professional soccer team based in San José
that competes as a member of the Western Conference of Major League Soccer.
Bay FC
Bay FC is the Bay Area's first National Women's Soccer League club that plays at PayPal
Park in San José. Co-founded by San José natives and former professional athletes
two-time FIFA World Cup Champion Brandi Chastain, Aly Wagner and Danielle Slaton.
San José Giants
The San Jose Giants are a minor league baseball team in San José. They are a Class
A-Advanced team in the Northern Division of the California League affiliated with
the MLB San Francisco Giants.
San José Sharks
The San Jose Sharks are a professional ice hockey team based in San José. They are
members of the Pacific Division of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League.
San Francisco 49ers
The San Francisco 49ers are a National Football League team that plays at Levi's Stadium
in Santa Clara. Levi's Stadium can be reached from SJSU via VTA light rail lines located
near campus.
Regional Visitor Information
San Francisco Travel
Looking to explore more of what the Bay Area has to offer? San Francisco is located
40 minutes north of SJSU and can be reached via a 45-minute drive or through Caltrain
or BART from San José.
Visit Oakland
Learn about Oakland news, area activities and events, and enjoy this top foodie destination,
rich in diversity and culture.
Visit Santa Cruz County
Find your flow and follow it to Santa Cruz. Enjoy beaches, redwood forests, cuisine,
recreation, wine history and adventure lodging.
Bay Area Sports Teams
Golden State Warriors
The Golden State Warriors are an American professional basketball team based at Chas
Center in San Francisco. The Warriors compete in the NBA as a member of the league's
Western Conference Pacific Division.
Golden State Valkyries
The Golden State Valkyries are a WNBA team that plays at Chase Center in San Francisco.
The Valkyries inaugural season as the Bay Area's newest sports team is in 2025.
San Francisco 49ers
The San Francisco 49ers are a professional American football team located in Santa
Clara. They compete in the NFL as a member of the league's National Football Conference
West division.
San Francisco Giants
The San Francisco Giants are an American professional baseball team based at Oracle
Park in San Francisco.
Regional and Local Transportation
ACE
The Altamont Corridor Express is a commuter rail service connecting Stockton and San
José and cities in Alameda County. ACE runs during commute hours.
Amtrak
Amtrak passenger service connects San José with the rest of the US from San José Diridon
Station. Amtrak services include the Capitol Corridor which link San José and Oakland
to Sacramento and points beyond and the Coastal Starlight from Seattle to Los Angeles.
Amtrak also operates bus services linking San José
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART)
BART connects San José with the rest of the Bay Area including Oakland, San Francisco
and several cities in between. Connect to BART from SJSU via VTA's 500 express bus
in downtown San José. In the future, BART will run through downtown under Santa Clara
Street.
Caltrain
Caltrain is a commuter rail service linking San José and San Francisco through the
San Francisco Peninsula. Board Caltrain at San José Diridon Station, a brief bus or
light rail ride from SJSU, in the western half of downtown San José.